                                Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                        March 24, 2021

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: April 8, 2021

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By:              Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
                          Community Development Department
                          801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov

Re:     Draper Innovation – Site Plan Request
        Application No.: SPR-1109-2020
        Applicant:        Cary Dunn, representing Badiee Development
        Project Location: 381 W 12300 S
        Current Zoning: CBP (Business Manufacturing Park) Zone
        Acreage:          10.2 Acres (Approximately 444,312 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Site Plan in the CBP zone regarding the
                          development of a new industrial business center.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 10.2 acres located
on the south side of 12300 S, at approximately 381 W (Exhibit B). The property is currently
zoned CBP. The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan be approved to allow for the
development of the currently vacant site as an industrial business center.

The proposed development will be the last part of an existing development with similar
uses allowed by the CBP zone that were developed around the year 2000. The site plan
shows two buildings and will utilize five different parcels for which will be adjusted into one
parcel per building. Additionally the applicant has also requested architectural deviations
with this application for roofline and façade variation.



ANALYSIS




Draper Innovation                                                    App. # SPR-1109-2020
Site Plan Request                               1
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Community
Commercial and Industrial/Manufacturing land use designations for the subject properties
(Exhibit C). These categories are characterized as follows:




Draper Innovation                                                App. # SPR-1109-2020
Site Plan Request                           2
The property has been assigned the CBP zoning classification (Exhibit D). According to
Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the CBP zone is to
“provide aesthetically attractive planned developments having a mix of office, research and
development, light manufacturing, and limited retail uses. Typical uses in this zone include
offices, clean indoor manufacturing facilities, service retail, restaurants, athletic clubs, personal
service shops, medical offices, office/warehouse buildings, and research facilities.” The CBP
zoning surrounds the property on the north, east and west; and M1(Light Manufacturing)
on the south.

Site Plan Layout. The site is currently undeveloped and encompasses five parcels. The
applicant will need to adjust the boundaries of these parcels to account for the new
building layout. The applicant plans on combining parcels and adjusting the boundary to
create two new parcels; one at 7.651 acres and the other at 2.621 acres (Exhibit E). The five
parcels are currently:

27-25-402-018
27-25-452-010
27-25-452-006
27-25-452-008
27-25-452-009

Building A will be developed on the north end of the property and will be approximately
95,937 ft² in size. Building B will be located on the southeast end of the property and will



Draper Innovation                                                          App. # SPR-1109-2020
Site Plan Request                                 3
be approximately 36,908 ft² in size. The rest of the site will be utilized by parking and
landscaping around the facility (See Exhibit E).

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. Landscaping will be utilized in and around the parking lot
and on the boundaries of the development. The submitted landscape plan shows shade
trees, shrubs, ornamental trees, sod, wood mulch, desert rose and gun-smoke crushed
rock for landscape materials. The proposed development is in compliance with DCMC
landscaping requirements as this proposed development type; “industrial or warehouse
sites” are required to have a minimum of 5% parking lot landscaping per DCMC Section 9-
23-100(A). The proposed landscaping is at 7.2%-7.8% coverage in the parking lot areas, and
total landscaping for the site at 25.38% (Exhibit F). The DCMC Section 9-22-050(D)(1)
requires at least 20% overall landscaping.

Parking. According to the DCMC Table 9-25-1, parking required for general office use is 4
spaces per 1000 ft² gross building floor area, and the requirement for warehouse use is 0.5
spaces per 1000 ft² of gross building floor area. The plans submitted by the applicant were
calculated at 4 spaces and 0.5 per 1000 ft² of gross building floor area based on dividing
the square footage into what is proposed office use and warehouse use.

Warehouse total:         89,277 ft ² at 0.5/1000 ft² equals 44.63 spaces required.
Office total:            42,830 ft ² at 4/1000 ft² equals 171.32 spaces required.
                         Total: 216 total spaces.

The applicant is proposing 216 spaces. This proposed development is allowed plus or
minus 10% (DCMC Section 9-25-090(A)) for a natural adjustment range of 194-238 spaces
for the proposed use. The applicant will also be providing an additional 10 ADA accessible
parking spaces as well.

Architecture. The proposed development will be utilizing 3 different colors per facade as
required per DCMC Section 9-23-040(F)(1); and (5), and is using on all facades 95% tilt-up
concrete which is a primary material in the CBP zone. The applicant is proposing to utilize a
metal composite material as the second primary material. The metal composite material
will encompasses the remaining 5% of the façade. The metal material called out on the
plans appears to not comply with the code standards. A condition of approval has been
placed on the site plan that the plans be updated to show a metal composite material as
allowed by DCMC. These plans must be resubmitted to staff prior to the issuance of the
land disturbance permit. The material types were submitted and were added to the
elevations that are attached to this report and shows the additional colors applicant has
proposed (Exhibit G).

Building Design Standards Modification. DCMC Section 9-22-030 states that the Planning
Commission may approve site plans that deviate from the requirements of the design
standards within the DCMC based on making certain required findings in whole. Per DCMC



Draper Innovation                                                     App. # SPR-1109-2020
Site Plan Request                              4
Section 9-22-030(B), the Planning Commission shall find an application complies with at
least three of the following criteria:

        1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in
           excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
        2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space
           area exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
        3. The project is a transit oriented development (TOD) and provides connectivity to
           a transportation facility.
        4. Traffic impacts on the neighborhood are lessened through programs, such as
           creative design, traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit pass
           programs.
        5. The project is an accredited LEED development.
        6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
           master plan or ordinance.
        7. The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases
           which involve redeveloped buildings, additions to existing buildings, minor
           structures added to a site, or new buildings within a previously approved phased
           project.
        8. Additional landscape plant material is provided in an amount at least ten
           percent (10%) more than the minimum required, including additional planting
           beds, plants, trees or a combination thereof.
        9. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or
           modern, which utilizes facade materials differently then prescribed in
           subsection 9-22-040F of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.
       10. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
           greater than the minimum required amount.

The applicant is requesting a Deviation From design Standards, in particular the east and
west rooflines, and building facades of both buildings that are the truck docking areas of
the buildings. The east façade of Building A and the west façade of Building B face each
other and both facades do not meet DCMC Section 9-22-040(C)(2) and (D)(2):

    (C)(2): Buildings with facades one hundred feet (100') or greater in total length shall have at
    least one significant facade variation from the primary wall plane whose depth is at least five
    feet (5') and whose width is at least twenty feet (20'). There shall be no uninterrupted facades
    one hundred feet (100') or greater in length.

    (D)(2) Provide roofline and parapet variations where there are long, continuous, and
    undisturbed rooflines fifty feet (50') or greater;

The applicant is requesting a deviation from this design standard section and has stated
that they meet criteria 1, 8, and 10 above.



Draper Innovation                                                        App. # SPR-1109-2020
Site Plan Request                                5
        1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in
           excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
           Applicant response: Pedestrian gathering areas along Willow Creek
           through the site. Benches to be placed along the sidewalk along 12300
           South.
        8. Additional landscape plant material is provided in an amount at least ten
           percent (10%) more than the minimum required, including additional planting
           beds, plants, trees or a combination thereof.
           Applicant response: To be worked out with the Landscape Architect.
       10. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
           greater than the minimum required amount.
           Applicant response: Painted Tilt-up Concrete will be used for a majority of
           the building, which is an approved primary material in this zone.

The applicant has provided plans that comply with criteria 1 and 10 above. To meet the
criteria 8 requirements for the deviation request, the applicant will need to submit a
revised landscape plan showing the additional landscaping and planting material needed
to comply with the deviation standards before a land disturbance permit will be issued.

Lighting. The proposed lighting for the development will have downward facing pole lights
that are 10-20 feet in height in the parking lot, and wall pack lighting on the front of the
building for pedestrian safety. The Applicant submitted the required photometric light
analysis for the property at 5-foot intervals and the site lighting design meets DCMC
Section 9-20-040 requirements.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a Site Plan request is found in Sections 9-5-
090(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

        E. Standards for Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a
            site plan:
            1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development
               plan is approved.
            2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including
               but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
               landscaping, and building materials.
            3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
               general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
            4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the
               subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.




Draper Innovation                                                       App. # SPR-1109-2020
Site Plan Request                                6
            5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards
               found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water
               drainage, and utilities concerns.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Site Plan submission. Comments from
these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, in working with the
Draper City Building and Engineering Divisions, have completed their review of the
geotechnical and geologic hazards report submitted as a part of the Site Plan. Comments
from Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Site Plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the Site Plan and Deviation
requests, receive public comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below
and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

Site Plan:
If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

            1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                    Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                    site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
            2.      That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the



Draper Innovation                                                        App. # SPR-1109-2020
Site Plan Request                                  7
                    development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
            3.      Per DCMC Section 9-5-090(J) failure to obtain a land disturbance permit
                    within one year of approval of any site plan shall void the prior site plan
                    approval. Prior to the expiration of the one-year period, an applicant may
                    submit a written request with the community development department for a
                    site plan extension of up to six (6) months. Approval of this extension may
                    only be granted by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission,
                    whichever is the approval authority outlined in this section, provided the
                    applicant can meet the requirements for extension under section 9-5-030
                    and demonstrate substantial action toward obtaining a land disturbance
                    permit.
            4.      A Parcel Boundary Adjustment is recorded with the Salt Lake County
                    Recorder’s Office prior to obtaining a building permit.
            5.      That the Applicant receive a formal UDOT approval letter before a Land
                    Disturbance Permit will be issued.
            6.      That the Applicant provide dedication document of public right-of-way to the
                    required 33-foot half width, see the master transportation plan for 265 west.
            7.      That the applicant re-submit elevation drawings for review and approval by
                    staff for the second primary material selection before the land disturbance
                    permit is issued.

The findings for approval as are follows:

            1. The entire site shall be developed at one time.
            2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title,
               including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
               landscaping, and building materials, with the exception of approved
               deviations listed in this report.
            3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
               general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
            4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the
               subject development, as required by engineering standards and
               specifications.
            5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards
               found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm
               water drainage, and utilities concerns.

The findings for denial as are follows:

            1. The Site Plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title,
               including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
               landscaping, and building materials.




Draper Innovation                                                        App. # SPR-1109-2020
Site Plan Request                                  8
            2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and
               objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which
               the site is located.
            3. The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the
               subject development, as required by engineering standards and
               specifications.
            4. The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering
               standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic,
               storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.

Deviation Requests.
The applicant has stated the two deviations requested comply with DCMC Section 9-22-
030(B)(1), (8), and (10). . If the Planning Commission decides to approve the deviation
requests, staff recommends they include the following conditions of approval:

             1. To meet DCMC Section 9-22-030(B)(8), the applicant will need to submit a
                modified landscape plan showing plant material provided in an amount of at
                least 10% more than the minimum required by DCMC for staff for review and
                approval prior to obtaining a land disturbance permit.

The findings for approval is as follows:

            1.      The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in
                    excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
            2.      Additional landscape plant material will be provided in an amount at least
                    ten percent (10%) more than the minimum required, including additional
                    planting beds, plants, trees or a combination thereof.
            3.      The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent
                    (10%) greater than the minimum required amount.

The findings for denial are as follows:

           1.       The applicant has not demonstrated to the Planning Commission that they
                    comply with the deviation the standards set in the DCMC Section 9-22-030(B).



MODEL MOTIONS

Deviation Request for DCMC Section 9-22-040(C)(2)
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation to Façade Variation, as
requested by Cary Dunn, representing Badiee Development, application SPR-1109-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March
24, 2021.



Draper Innovation                                                        App. # SPR-1109-2020
Site Plan Request                                  9
Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation to Façade
Variation, as requested by Cary Dunn, representing Badiee Development, application SPR-
1109-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated March 24, 2021 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation to Façade Variation, as
requested by Cary Dunn, representing Badiee Development, application SPR-1109-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March
24, 2021.

Deviation Request for DCMC Section 9-22-040(D)(2)
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation to Roofline, as
requested by Cary Dunn, representing Badiee Development, application SPR-1109-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March
24, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation to Roofline, as
requested by Cary Dunn, representing Badiee Development, application SPR-1109-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March
24, 2021 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation to Roofline, as requested by
Cary Dunn, representing Badiee Development, application SPR-1109-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March 24, 2021.

Site Plan.
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Site Plan, as requested by Cary
Dunn, representing Badiee Development, application SPR-1109-2020, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March 24, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Site Plan, as requested
by Cary Dunn, representing Badiee Development, application SPR-1109-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March 24, 2021 and
as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…




Draper Innovation                                                  App. # SPR-1109-2020
Site Plan Request                             10
Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Site Plan, as requested by Cary Dunn,
representing Badiee Development, application SPR-1109-2020, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March 24, 2021.




Draper Innovation                                                App. # SPR-1109-2020
Site Plan Request                          11
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     That the Applicant finalize any requirements, conditions, to finalize the
              approval to include conditions in this report, the DCMC; and Draper City
              before permitting.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     Stormwater Maintenance Plan and Agreement are now required for every
              private storm drainage system, per DCMC 16-2-170. Submission of the
              maintenance plan is now required prior to site approval. The maintenance
              agreement will be a condition of site plan approval; it will require a review
              and approval by Engineering followed by being record at Salt Lake County.
              The executed agreement is required prior to issuance of the Land
              Disturbance Permit for construction of the site.

       2.      Provide a copy of Utah Department of Transportation approval or access
               permit for the new connection onto 12300 South.

       3.      265 West is a minor commercial collector. Provide dedication document of
               public right-of-way to the required 33-foot half width, see the master
               transportation plan. Deed of Dedication process is underway. Final executed
               dedication will be required as a condition of approval but not before site plan
               approval. Submittal of executed deed will be a requirement of the Land
               Disturbance Permit.

       4.      Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required
               prior to construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the
               Engineering Division and is required prior to Building Permit issuance.
               Informational comment – no response required. Comment will remain through
               review and approval process.

       5.      Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit
               obtained through the Engineering Division. Informational comment – no
               response required. Comment will remain through review and approval process.
Building Division Review.

       1.      No Comments.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review.

       1.      No Comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
               twenty-six (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of
               thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be required. The road must be, designed
               and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The
               surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall
               have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a
               maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be, checked prior to building permits
               being issued.

       2.      Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary
               Fire Department Access to the site shall be, installed and APPROVED by the
               Fire Department prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time
               during the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department
               Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.

       3.      Fire Hydrants are required. There shall be a total of 6 hydrants required
               spaced at 300ft. increments, 40 feet minimum distance out from the
               building. Hydrants are to be protected with bollards if susceptible to vehicle
               damage. The required fire flow for this project is 6500GPM for full 4 hour
               duration. A 50% reduction is allowed in fire flow which is 3250gpm for 3
               hours, for installation of fire sprinklers.

       4.      Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler
               shop drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at
               don.buckley@draperutah.gov. A complete set of plans, with manufacturer
               cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET
               level III or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to be a hydrant with-
               in a 100 feet of the FDC.) FDC is required to have KNOX Locking Caps. ALL
               FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE
               SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT. The fire sprinkler system
               shall be designed to accommodate high pile storage.

       5.      Post Indicator Valve with Tamper May Be Required. If there is no designated
              fire riser room with a direct access door from the outside. There shall be
              either a wall mounted P.I.V (OS&Y) or a typical P.I.V placed a minimum
              distance of 40 feet from the building with a tamper switch.

       6.     Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are
              to be sent via email to the following to: Don Buckley at
              don.buckley@draperutah.gov. A complete set of plans, with manufacturer
              cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level
              III or better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE ALARM PLANS REQUIRE 3rd
              PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.

       7.     Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted
              to exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the
              exterior access to the fire sprinkler riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the
              top of the box) Lock box purchase can be arranged by the General
              Contractor. See attached information form.

       8.     Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
              address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
              property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.

       9.     Street Signs required and are to be posted and legible prior to building
              permits being, issued. All lots to have lot number or address posted and
              legible.

Notes: Plan approval or review shall not, be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any person designing, owning, operating or controlling any building.
Damages to persons or property caused by defects, fire, improper installation, or other
emergency conditions that occur in or on the building property shall not hold the Draper
City Fire Department as assuming any liability.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
                                                                                   3
                                                                                       106
                                                                                             STORAGE
                                                                                                                                               105
                                                                                                                                                     FIRE RISER
                                                                                                                                                                             1




                                       4
                                                                               2




                                                                                                       NORTH 323.09'
                                                                                                       SOUTH
                                                                                                       EAST
                                                                                                       WEST  323.09'
                                                                                                              323.09'




            41' - 8"
            41' - 8"

125' - 0"
            41' - 8"




                       63' - 0"   56' - 0"   56' - 0"    56' - 0"   63' - 0"

                                             294' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NORTH 323.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    323.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     323.09'
                                                                                                                                    41' - 8"
                                                                                                                                    41' - 8"


                                                                                                                        125' - 0"
                                                                                                                                    41' - 8"




                                                                                                                                                                  63' - 0"       56' - 0"   56' - 0"    56' - 0"   63' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                            294' - 0"
   EXHIBIT F
LANDSCAPE PLAN
    LANDSCAPE PLAN SPECIFICATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PLANT SCHEDULE
PART 1 - GENERAL                                                                                                                                    H.Set tree on soil and remove all burlap, wire baskets, twine, wrappings, etc. before beginning and backfilling operations. Do not use                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EVERGREEN TREES      CODE       QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT     CAL               SIZE
                                                                                                                                                      planting stock if the ball is cracked or broken before or during planting operation.
1.1      SUMMARY
                                                                                                                                                    I. Apply vitamin B-1 root stimulator at the rate of one (1) tablespoon per gallon.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Js'm       9     Juniperus scopulorum `Moonglow`                    B&B                        5`-6`
    A.This section includes landscape procedures for the Project including all labor, materials, and installation necessary, but not limited
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Moonglow Juniper
      to, the following:                                                                                                                            J. Upon completion of backfilling operation, thoroughly water tree to completely settle the soil and fill any voids that may have
                                                                                                                                                       occurred. Use a watering hose, not the area irrigation system. If additional prepared topsoil mixture needs to be added. It should be
       1. Site Conditions
                                                                                                                                                       a courser mix as required to establish finish grade as indicated on the drawings.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pg'm       9     Picea glauca pendula `Morton Tower`                B&B                        5`-6`
       2. Guarantees
                                                                                                                                                    K.The amount of pruning shall be limited to the minimum necessary to remove dead or injured twigs and branches. All cuts, scars,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12300 SOUTH STREET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Morton Tower Weeping White Spruce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (UDOT CONTROLLED)
       3. Maintenance                                                                                                                                 and bruises shall be properly treated according to the direction of the Project Representative. Proper pruning techniques shall be
       4. Soil Amendments                                                                                                                             used. Do not leave stubs and do not cut the leader branch. Improper pruning shall be cause for rejection of the plant material.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P'bs       7     Picea omorika `Bruns`                              B&B                        5`-6`
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bruns Spruce
       5. Fine Grading                                                                                                                              L. Prepare a watering circle of 2' diameter around the trunk. For conifers, extend the watering well to the drip line of the tree canopy.
                                                                                                                                                       Place mulch around the planted trees.
       6. Landscape Edging
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (5)Hs's                       (5)Hs's                                                                                                                                                                  (5)Hs's                   (5)Hs's      (1)Ag'f



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DECIDUOUS TREES      CODE       QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT     CAL               SIZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1)Sr'b         (1)Ag'f                            (1)Up'l                       (1)Ag'f                                                                                                                                   (1)Ag'f                        (1)Up'l


                                                                                                                                                        4. TURF - SOD LAYING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1)Up'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1)Sr'b          (1)Sr'b (6)Hs's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1)Up'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (1)Sr'b



       7. Furnish and Installing Plant
                                                                                                                                                    A.Top Soil Amendments: Prior to laying sod, commercial fertilizer shall be applied and incorporated into the upper four (4) inches of                                                                (1)Ma'm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (3)Pb'p


       8. Turf Planting                                                                                                                               the topsoil at a rate of four pounds of nitrogen per one thousand (1,000) square feet. Adjust fertilization mixture and rate of                                                     (3)Hs's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (5)Am'h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (5)Am'h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (3)Am'h                                                      (4)Am'h                   (4)Am'h                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ag'f       22    Acer griseum `JFS KW8AGRI` TM                      B&B      2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (3)Am'h          (3)Am'h

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Fireburst Paperbark Maple
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (3)Ax'u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (4)Sb'g


       9. Weed Barrier                                                                                                                                application as needed to meet recommendations given by topsoil analysis. Include other amendments as required.                                                                          (4)Pb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (9)Pb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (2)Ma'm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1)Ma'm

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (3)Pb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (3)Js'm



1.2      SITE CONDITIONS                                                                                                                            B. Fertilization: Three weeks after sod placement fertilize the turf at a rate of ½ pound of nitrogen per 1000 square feet. Use fertilizer
                                                                                                                                                       specified above. Adjust fertilization mixture and rates to meet recommendations given by topsoil analysis.                                                                                                                                                                                   (3)Hs's              (3)Hs's             (2)Hs's             (2)Pg'm                                                  (1)Pg'm            (2)Hs's          (3)Hs's                  (3)Hs's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       At'g       2     Acer tataricum `GarAnn`                            B&B      Multi-trunked
    A.Examination: Before submitting a Bid, each Contractor shall carefully examine the Contract Documents; shall visit the site of the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (3)Sb'g (1)Pg'm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Hot Wings Tatarian Maple
                                                                                                                                                    C. Sod Availability and Condition: Sod is to be delivered to the site in good condition. It is to be inspected upon arrival and installed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (2)M'ml

      Work; shall fully inform themselves as to all existing conditions and limitations; and shall include in the Bid the cost of all items
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (5)Am'h          (3)Am'h              (3)Am'h                                  (1)M'ml                                      (1)M'ml       (2)M'ml            (3)Am'h                (3)Am'h    (5)Am'h                  (1)M'ml                  (5)Sb'g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1)Rf'r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1)Ax'u                                     (3)Am'm             (2)Ms'b


                                                                                                                                                       within 24 hours. Sod is to be moist and cool to ensure that decomposition has not begun and is to be free of pests, diseases, or




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         265 WEST STREET
      required by the Contract Documents are at a variance with the applicable laws, building codes, rules, regulations, or contain obvious                                                                                                                                                                                                   (3)Pb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (3)Am'm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (2)Ms'b


                                                                                                                                                       blemishes. The Contractor shall satisfy himself as to the existing conditions prior to any construction. The Contractor shall be fully
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1)Rf'r

      erroneous or uncoordinated information, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Project Representative and the necessary changes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (3)Hs's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ax'u       11    Acer truncatum x platanoides `JFS-KW187` TM        B&B      2"Cal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (PUBLIC STREET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WAGSTAFF INVESTMENTS
      shall be accomplished by Addendum.                                                                                                               responsible for furnishing and laying all sod required on the plans. He shall furnish new sod as specified above and lay it so as too                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LLC                                                                                                                                                                                      Urban Sunset Maple



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LP-101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (3)Am'h


                                                                                                                                                       completely satisfy the intent and meaning of the plans and specification at no extra cost to the owner. In the case of any discrepancy
    B. Protection: Contractor to conduct the Work in such a manner to protect all existing underground utilities or structures. Contractor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (3)Hs's


                                                                                                                                                       in the amount of sod to be removed or amount to be used, it shall be the Contractor's responsibility to report such to the Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH 323.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        323.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         323.09'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (3)Am'h


       to repair or replace any damaged utility or structure using identical materials to match existing at no expense to the Owner.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bp'p       12    Betula platyphylla `Jefpark`                       B&B      2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1)Ag'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1)Ag'f

                                                                                                                                                       Representative prior to commencing the work.                                                                                                                                                                (14)Cs'k                                       (3)Hs's


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Parkland Pillar Birch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (14)Cs'k



    C. Irrigation System: Do not begin planting until the irrigation system is completely installed, is adjusted for full coverage and is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (3)Hs's                                                                 (3)Am'h



                                                                                                                                                    D.Sod Laying: The surface upon which the new sod to be laid will be prepared as specified in the detail and be lightly watered before
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (3)Ax'u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (3)Am'm                 (2)Ms'b


       completely operational.
                                                                                                                                                      laying. Areas where sod is to be laid shall be cut trimmed, or shaped to receive full width sod (minimum twelve (12) inches). No
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1)Rf'r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (4)Pb'p




1.3      PERMITS                                                                                                                                      partial strip or pieces will be accepted.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cc'i       3     Crataegus crus-gali inermis                        B&B      2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn
    A.Blue Stake/ Dig Line: When digging is required, “Blue Stake” or “Dig Line” the work site and identify the approximate location of             E.Sod shall be tamped lightly as each piece is set to ensure that good contact is made between edges and also the ground. If voids or                                                     (3)Pb'p

      all known underground utilities or structures.                                                                                                  holes are discovered, the sod piece(s) is (are) to be raised and topsoil is to be used to fill in the areas until level. Sod laid on any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1)Ax'u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1)Rf'r



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gb'p       4     Ginkgo biloba `Princeton Sentry`                   B&B      2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (5)Am'm


                                                                                                                                                      sloped areas shall be anchored with wooden dowels or other materials which are accepted by the grass sod industry.                                                                                                                                       (3)Ms'b

1.4      PLANT DELIVERY, QUALITY, AND AVAILABILITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Princeton Sentry Gingko
                                                                                                                                                    F. Sod shall be rolled with a roller that is at least 50% full immediately after installation to ensure the full contact with soil is made.                                                                                                                 (3)M'ml


    A.Unauthorized substitutions will not be accepted. If proof is submitted that specific plants or plant sizes are unobtainable, written                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (3)Pg'm

      substitution requests will be considered for the nearest equivalent plant or size. All substitution requests must be made in writing          G.Apply water directly after laying sod. Rainfall is not acceptable.                                                                                                                    (3)Hs's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (1)Ax'u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ma'm       4     Maackia amurensis `JFS-Schiectell` TM              B&B      2"Cal
      and preferably before the bid due date.                                                                                                       H.Watering of the sod shall be the complete responsibility of the Contractor by whatever means necessary to establish the sod in an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (4)Pb'p

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1)Ag'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1)Ag'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (3)M'ml

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MaacNificent Maackia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (14)Cs'k


1.5      FINAL INSPECTION                                                                                                                             acceptable manner to the end of the Maintenance period. If an irrigation system is in place on the site, but for whatever reason,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (14)Cs'k                                           (1)Rf'r


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (3)Am'm

                                                                                                                                                      water is not available in the system. It is the responsibility of the Contractor to water the sod by whatever means, until the sod is                                                 (3)Hs's                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1)Pg'm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1)At'g                                   (1)Up'l

    A.All plants will be inspected at the time of Final Inspection prior to receiving a Landscape Substantial Completion for conformance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ms't       4     Malus sargentii `Tina`                             B&B      2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (3)Ms'b                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (19)Cb'k      (12)Sb'g                                                   (6)Sb'g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1)Ax'u


                                                                                                                                                      accepted by the Project Representative.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (4)Am'm


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tina Crabapple
      to specified planting procedures, and for general appearance and vitality. Any plant not approved by the Project Representative will
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (4)Pb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1)Ms'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1)Rf'r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (23)Fm'a                               (1)Rf'r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (3)Cb'k


      be rejected and replaced immediately.                                                                                                         I. Protection of the newly laid sod shall be the complete responsibility of the Contractor. The Contractor shall provide acceptable                                                                   (1)Ag'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (4)Fm'a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (3)Ms'b      (1)M'ml
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (1)Ms'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (2)Am'm                                                       (29)Jc'd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1)Ms't
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (3)P'bs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (3)Am'h

                                                                                                                                                       visual barriers, to include barricades set appropriate distances with strings or tapes between barriers, as an indication of new work.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1)Gb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (17)Cs'k                                                                                                         (1)M'ml
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1)Up'l

1.6      LANDSCAPE SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Sr'b       4     Syringa reticulata `Bailnce`                       B&B      2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (4)BENCHES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (2)Am'm                                                                                            (6)Hs's


                                                                                                                                                       The Contractor is to restore any damaged areas caused by others (including vehicular traffic), erosion, etc, until such time as the          12300 SOUTH II LLC                                                                                                                                                   (1)M'ml                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (1)Ms'b


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Snowdance Tree Lilac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (3)Am'h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (3)Ms'b




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LP-102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (2)Bp'p

    A.A Substantial Completion Certificate will only be issued by the Project Representative for “landscape and irrigation” in their entirety.         lawn is accepted by the Owner.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LP-103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1)Fm'a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (3)Pb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (5)Fm'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (3)Am'h


      Substantial Completion will not be proportioned to be designated areas of a project.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (3)Am'm                                                            (1)Gb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1)Gb'p                                                         (1)M'ml                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (3)Am'h

                                                                                                                                                    J. All sod that has not been laid within 24 hours shall be deemed unacceptable and will be removed from the site.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (3)Hs's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (24)Fm'a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1)Ax'u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1)M'ml

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Up'l       10    Ulmus parvifolia `Emer II`                         B&B      2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1)Ms'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1)Ag'f

1.7      MAINTENANCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (4)Pb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (3)P'bs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (2)Am'm


                                                                                                                                                  3.5    WEED BARRIER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1)Ag'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (2)M'ml
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (2)Am'm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Allee Lacebark Elm
    A.Plant Material: The Contractor is responsible to maintain all planted materials in a healthy and growing condition for 30 days after                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (14)Cs'k                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (1)Ms'b                                                       (1)Ag'f

                                                                                                                                                    A.For the health of the soil and the microorganisms, weed barrier is not recommended. If use is required or requested, do not place in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (3)Pb'p                                                                                                   (1)M'ml                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (3)Am'h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (1)Ag'f


      receiving a Landscape Substantial Completion at which time the Guarantee period commences. This maintenance is to include                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (14)Cs'k                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1)Bp'p




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BI
                                                                                                                                                      annual or grass areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DECIDUOUS SHRUBS     CODE       QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT
      mowing, weeding, cultivating, fertilizing, monitoring water schedules, controlling insects and diseases, re-guying and staking, and all




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (13)Fm'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1)BENCH                                                                                        (1)Ms't




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1)Gb'p                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1)Ms'b

      other operations of care necessary for the promotion of root growth and plant life so that all plants are in a condition satisfactory at      B. Cut weed barrier back to the edge of the plant rootball.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1)Ag'f                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (2)Am'm                                  (1)Ag'f     (1)Ag'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1)Up'l



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Am'm       56    Aronia melanocarpa `UCONNAM165` TM                 5 gal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (14)Cs'k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (12)Cs'k (12)Cs'k

      the end of the guarantee period. The Contractor shall be held responsible for failure to monitor watering operations and shall                C. Overlap rows of fabric min. 6”
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1)P'bs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (2)Am'm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (6)Hs's


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Low Scape Mound Chokeberry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1)Ag'f




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (3)Am'h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1)Ms'b

      replace any and all plant material that is lost due to improper application of water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (14)Cs'k                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (3)Am'h                                                                                               (1)Ms't




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (1)Bp'p

                                                                                                                                                    D.Stable fabric edges and overlaps to ground.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CR
1.8      GUARANTEE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (1)Ag'f



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Am'h       121   Aronia melanocarpa `UCONNAM166` TM                 5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (5)Am'm                                                                             (7)Am'm                                                                                                                                                                    (1)BENCH

                                                                                                                                                  END OF SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1)Ms'b             (1)Rf'r      (3)Am'h      (3)Bp'p        (3)Am'h                    (1)Ms'b (1)Rf'r            (10)Am'h                                                                                                                                 (1)Ms'b




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1)Pb'p                                                                                                                                                                                               (1)Cc'i

    A.Guarantee: A guarantee period of one year shall begin from end of maintenance period and final acceptance for trees, shrubs, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (2)Am'm

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (4)Pb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (1)Ag'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Low Scape Hedger Chokeberry




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (5)Hs's


      ground covers. All plants shall grow and be healthy for the guarantee period and trees shall live and grow in acceptable upright
                                                                                                                                                   LANDSCAPE NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (3)Pb'p                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (2)Am'm

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (1)Cc'i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1)Ms'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (3)Am'h

      position. Any plant not alive, in poor health, or in poor condition at the end of the guarantee period will be replaced immediately.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (5)Ca'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1)Ag'f

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (3)Pb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (2)Bp'p



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ca'b       5     Cornus alba `Bailhalo` TM                          5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (10)Hs's


      Any plant will only need to be replaced once during the guarantee period. Contractor to provide documentation showing where
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ivory Halo Dogwood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (3)Pb'p                                                                                             (3)Am'h                                                                                    (6)Hs's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (1)Cc'i                                               (2)Ax'u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (3)Pb'p

      each plant to be replaced is located. Any outside factors, such as vandalism or lack of maintenance on the part of the Owner, shall          INSTALLATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (3)Hs's                        (3)Hs's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1)Ms'b

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (2)Am'm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (3)Am'h



      not be part of the guarantee                                                                                                                 1.    LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR SHALL HAVE ALL UTILITIES BLUE STAKED PRIOR TO DIGGING. ANY DAMAGE TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (3)Pb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (1)Up'l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (3)Am'h



PART II - PRODUCTS                                                                                                                                       UTILITIES SHALL BE REPAIRED AT CONTRACTOR'S EXPENSE WITH NO ADDITIONAL COST TO THE OWNER.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (6)Cb'k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1)Ms't                                                             Cs'k       164   Cornus sericea `Kelseyi`                           5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1)Pg'm

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kelseyi Dogwood
                                                                                                                                                   2.    DURING THE BIDDING AND INSTALLATION PROCESS, THE LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (6)Js'm                                             (16)Fm'a                                (1)Bp'p                                                                                (1)Up'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1)Bp'p

2.1      LANDSCAPE MATERIALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1)Bp'p        (4)Po'f



                                                                                                                                                         VERIFYING QUANTITIES OF ALL MATERIALS. IF DISCREPANCIES EXIST, THE PLAN SHALL DICTATE QUANTITIES TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (65)Pv'sl




    A.Tree Staking: All trees shall be staked for one year warranty period. All trees not plumb shall be replaced. Staked trees shall use vinyl          BE USED.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (9)Sb'g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1)At'g

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Po'f       4     Physocarpus opulifolius `UMNHarpell` Fireside TM   5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (6)Sb'g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (2)Ax'u

      tree ties and tree stakes two (2) inch by two (2) by eight (8) foot common pine stakes used as shown on the details.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (3)Hs's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (3)Hs's

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Fireside Ninebark
                                                                                                                                                   3.    ALL PLANT MATERIAL SHALL BE PLANTED ACCORDING TO INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY OF ARBORICULTURE (ISA)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (3)Pb'p


    B. Tree Wrap: Tree wrap is not to be used.                                                                                                           STANDARDS WITH CONSIDERATION TO INDIVIDUAL SOIL AND SITE CONDITIONS, AND NURSERY CARE AND


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LP-104
                                                                                                                                                         INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS.
    C. Mulch/Rock: See Plans. All planter beds to receive a minimum 3” layer for trees, shrubs, and perennials and 1” for groundcovers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pb'p       70    Prunus besseyi `P011S` TM                          5 gal
                                                                                                                                                   4.    SELECTED PLANTS WILL BE ACCORDING TO THE PLANT LEGEND. IF SUBSTITUTIONS ARE NECESSARY, PROPOSED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (5)Hs's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pawnee Buttes Sand Cherry
    D.Weed Barrier: DeWitt 5 oz. weed barrier fabric. Manufactured by DeWitt Company, dewittcompany.com or approved equal.                               LANDSCAPE CHANGES MUST BE SUBMITTED TO THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT FOR APPROVAL PRIOR TO LAYING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (3)Am'h




    E. Tree, Shrub, and Grass Backfill Mixture; Backfill mixture to be 75% native soil and 25% topsoil, thoroughly mixed together prior to               SOD.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (1)Up'l




       placement.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Rf'r       10    Rhamnus frangula `Ron Williams` Fine Line          5 gal
                                                                                                                                                   5.    SHOULD THE SITE REQUIRE ADDITIONAL TOPSOIL, REFER TO SOIL TEST WHEN MATCHING EXISTING SOIL. IF A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INLAND COCACOLA                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Fine Line Buckthorn
                                                                                                                                                         MATCHING SOIL IS NOT LOCATABLE, A 6” DEPTH OF SANDY LOAM TOPSOIL (MIXED PRIOR TO SPREADING WITH 2-3”                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BOTTLING CORP
    F. Topsoil: Required for turf areas, planter beds and Backfill Mixture. Acceptable topsoil shall meet the following standards:                       OF QUALITY COMPOST) CAN BE INCORPORATED INTO THE EXISTING SOIL USING THE FOLLOWING DIRECTIONS:
         a. PH: 5.5-7.5                                                                                                                                  SCARIFY TOP 6” OF EXISTING SUBSOIL AND INCORPORATE 3” OF NEW COMPOST ENRICHED TOPSOIL. SPREAD
                                                                                                                                                         REMAINING TOPSOIL TO REACH FINISHED GRADE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sb'g       45    Spiraea betulifolia `Tor Gold` TM                  5 gal
         b. EC (electrical conductivity): < 2.0 mmhos per centimeter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Glow Girl Birchleaf Spirea
                                                                                                                                                   6.    SOD FOR NEW LAWN AREAS SHALL BE A DROUGHT TOLERANT VARIETY. FINE LEVEL ALL AREAS PRIOR TO LAYING
         c. SAR (sodium absorption ration): < 3.0                                                                                                        SOD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EVERGREEN SHRUBS     CODE       QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT
         d. % OM (percent organic matter): >1%                                                                                                     7.    EDGING, AS INDICATED ON PLAN, IS TO BE INSTALLED BETWEEN ALL LAWN AND PLANTER AREAS. ANY TREES
                                                                                                                                                         LOCATED IN LAWN MUST HAVE A 4-6' TREE RING OF THE SAME EDGING.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jc'd       35    Juniperus chinensis `Daub`s Frosted`               5 gal
         e. Texture (particle size per USDA soil classification): Sand <70%; Clay < 30%; Silt < 70%, Stone fragments (gravel or any soil
            particle greater than two (2) mm in size) < 5% by volume.                                                                              8.    IF REQUIRED BY CITY OR OWNER SPECIFIED, DeWitt 5 OZ WEED BARRIER FABRIC TO BE INSTALLED IN ALL PLANTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Daub`s Frosted Juniper
                                                                                                                                                         AREAS EXCEPT UNDER ANNUAL PLANTING AREAS AS SHOWN ON PLAN. WEED BARRIER SHALL BE CUT BACK FROM
    G.Turf Sod: All sod shall be 18 month old as specified on plans (or approved equal) that has been cut fresh the morning of                           EACH PLANT TO THE DIAMETER OF THE ROOTBALL.
      installation. Only sod that has been grown on a commercial sod farm shall be used. Only use sod from a single source.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GRASSES              CODE       QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT
                                                                                                                                                   9.    ROCK MULCH (INORGANIC MULCH) TO BE APPLIED AT THE FOLLOWING DEPTHS: 3” IN ALL TREE, SHRUB, AND
    H.Landscape Curb Edging: six (6) inches by four (4) inches extruded concrete curb made up of the following materials:                                PERENNIAL PLANTER AREAS; ANNUAL PLANTING AREAS AS SHOWN ON PLAN TO RECEIVE 4” OF SOIL AID                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Cb'k       28    Calamagrostis brachytricha                         1 gal
         a. Washed mortar sand free of organic material.                                                                                                 MATERIAL (ORGANIC MULCH). NO MULCH SHALL BE PLACED WITHIN 12” OF BASE OF TREE AND 6” WITHIN BASE OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Korean Feather Reed Grass
                                                                                                                                                         SHRUBS AND PERENNIALS.
         b. Portland Cement (see concrete spec. below for type)
         c. Reinforced fiber - Specifically produced for compatibility with aggressive alkaline environment of Portland cement-based
                                                                                                                                                   10. A NEW UNDERGROUND, AUTOMATIC IRRIGATION SYSTEM IS TO BE INSTALLED BY CONTRACTOR IN ALL
                                                                                                                                                       LANDSCAPED AREAS. LAWN AREAS TO RECEIVE AT LEAST 100% HEAD TO HEAD COVERAGE AND PLANTER AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SITE REQUIREMENT CALCULATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Fm'a       86    Festuca mairei                                     1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Atlas Fescue
            composites.                                                                                                                                TO RECEIVE A FULL DRIP SYSTEM TO EACH TREE AND SHRUB. POINT SOURCE DRIP OR IN-LINE DRIP TUBING TO BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1 LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                       SECURED AT EDGE OF ROOTBALL, NOT AGAINST TRUNK. SEE IRRIGATION PLAN.
         d. Only potable water for mixing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOCAL STREET FRONTAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SYMBOL                                                                       DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                            QTY
                                                                                                                                                   11. UPON REQUEST, A PLANT GUIDE IS AVAILABLE WITH OUR RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING WEED BARRIER,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Hs's       117   Helictotrichon sempervirens `Sapphire`             1 gal
    I.Landscape Metal Edging: 5.5" steel edging with 18" dowels into the ground for stabilization.                                                     PLANT CARE AND MAINTENANCE                                                                    12300 SOUTH: (360 LINEAR FT)                                                                                                      REQUIRED:                                                                                                       PROVIDED:                                                                                                                                                                                    SODDED LAWN AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9,288 sf                                                     Blue Oat Grass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2 SHADE TREES PER 100 LINEAR FT.                                                                                                  7                                                                                                               8                                                                                                                                                                                            LAWN AREAS SHALL BE SOD. NEW TURF AREAS TO BE SODDED WITH 18% "BLUESTAR
PART III - EXECUTION                                                                                                                               INSTALLER RESPONSIBILITIES AND LIABILITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KENTUCKY BLUEGRASS, 19% "MARQUIS" KENTUCKY BLUEGRASS, 17% "NEWPORT"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1 ORNAMENTAL TREE PER 100 LINEAR FT.                                                                                              4                                                                                                               4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M'ml       22    Miscanthus sinensis `Morning Light`                2 gal
3.1      GRADING                                                                                                                                   1. THESE PLANS ARE FOR BASIC DESIGN LAYOUT AND INFORMATION. LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KENTUCKY BLUEGRASS, 17% "TOUCHDOWN" KENTUCKY BLUEGRASS, 16% "APM
                                                                                                                                                       USE TRADE KNOWLEDGE FOR IMPLEMENTATION. OWNER ASSUMES NO LIABILITIES FOR INADEQUATE           16 SHRUBS PER 100 LINEAR FT.                                                                                                      57                                                                                                              57                                                                                                                                                                                           PERENNIAL RYEGRASS, 13% "ACCENT PERENNIAL RYEGRASS OR APPROVED EQUAL AT                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Morning Light Maiden Grass
    A.Topsoil Preparation: Grade planting areas according to the grading plan. Eliminate uneven areas and low spots. Provide for proper                ENGINEERING CALCULATIONS, MANUFACTURER PRODUCT DEFECTS, INSTALLATION OF ANY LANDSCAPING AND 100 SQ.FT. OF BED PER 100 LINEAR FEET.                                                                                              360 SQ.FT.                                                                                                      2100 SQ.FT.                                                                                                                                                                                  A RATE OF 220 LBS. PER ACRE. FINE LEVEL ALL AREAS PRIOR TO LAYING SOD.
      grading and drainage.                                                                                                                            COMPONENTS, OR TIME EXECUTION.                                                                3' SHRUBS OR BERM FOR 75% SCREENING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ALL LAWN AREAS SHALL BE IRRIGATED WITH 100% COVERAGE BY POP-UP SPRAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HEADS AND GEAR-DRIVEN ROTORS. ALL DECIDUOUS AND CONIFER TREES PLANTED                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ms'b       37    Miscanthus sinensis `NCMS2B`                       1 gal
    B. Topsoil Placement: Slope surfaced away from building at two (2) percent slope with no pockets of standing water. Establish finish           2. LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE AND LIABLE FOR INSTALLATION OF ALL LANDSCAPING AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bandwidth Maiden Grass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WITHIN SOD AREAS SHALL HAVE A FOUR FOOT(4`) DIAMETER TREE RING COVERED
       grades of one (1) inches for planters below grade of adjacent paved surfaced. Provide neat, smooth, and uniform finish grades.                  IRRIGATION SYSTEMS INCLUDING CODE REQUIREMENTS, TIME EXECUTIONS, INSTALLED PRODUCTS AND       265 WEST: (370 LINEAR FT)                                                                                                         REQUIRED:                                                                                                       PROVIDED:                                                                                                                                                                                    WITH CHOCOLATE BROWN BARK MULCH, NO SHREDDED FINES. SUBMIT SAMPLES TO
       Remove surplus sub-soil and topsoil from the site.                                                                                              MATERIALS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2 SHADE TREES PER 100 LINEAR FT.                                                                                                  7                                                                                                               8                                                                                                                                                                                            BE APPROVED BY LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT AND OWNER BEFORE INSTALLATION.
                                                                                                                                                   GRADING AND DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pv's       65    Panicum virgatum `Shenandoah`                      1 gal
    C. Compaction: compaction under hard surface areas (asphalt paths and concrete surfaces) shall be ninety-five (95) percent.                                                                                                                      1 ORNAMENTAL TREE PER 100 LINEAR FT.                                                                                              4                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Shenandoah Switch Grass
       Compaction under planting areas shall be between eighty-five (85) and ninety (90) percent.                                                  1. AS PER CODE, ALL GRADING IS TO SLOPE AWAY FROM ANY STRUCTURE. SURFACE OF THE GROUND WITHIN 10' 16 SHRUBS PER 100 LINEAR FT.                                                                                                      59                                                                                                              43
                                                                                                                                                       FEET OF THE FOUNDATION SHOULD DRAIN AWAY FROM THE STRUCTURE WITH A MINIMUM FALL OF 6”                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WOOD MULCH PLANTING AREAS TO RECEIVE MIN. 12" DEPTH OF QUALITY TOPSOIL. IF                                                                                                                                                             4,926 sf
3.2      TURF GRADING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                100 SQ.FT. OF BED PER 100 LINEAR FEET.                                                                                            370 SQ.FT.                                                                                                      750 SQ.FT.                                                                                                                                                                                   TOPSOIL IS PRESENT ON SITE, PROVIDE SOIL TEST TO DETERMINE SOIL QUALITY FOR
                                                                                                                                                   2. AS PER CODE, FINISHED GRADE WILL NOT DRAIN ON NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES                           3' SHRUBS OR BERM FOR 75% SCREENING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROPOSED PLANTINGS. PROVIDE 3" DEPTH OF SHREDDED WOOD MULCH TOP
    A.The surface on which the sod is to be laid shall be firm and free from footprints, depressions, or undulations of any kind. The                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DRESSING.
                                                                                                                                                   3.    A MINIMUM OF 6” OF FOUNDATION WILL BE LEFT EXPOSED AT ALL CONDITIONS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
      surface shall be free of all materials larger than 1/2” in diameter.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WEST SIDE PERIMETER TREE COUNT:                                                      REQUIRED:                                                                                                       PROVIDED:
                                                                                                                                                   4.    LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR TO MAINTAIN OR IMPROVE FINAL GRADE AND PROPER DRAINAGE ESTABLISHED BY
    B. The finish grade of the topsoil adjacent to all sidewalks, mow-strips, etc. prior to the laying of sod, shall be set such that the crown                                                                                                                                                   1 SHADE TREE PER 100 LINEAR.FT. (689 FT.)                                            7                                                                                                               20                                                                                                                                                                                           1" DESERT ROSE CRUSHED ROCK                                                                                                                                                                                                            13,992 sf
                                                                                                                                                         EXCAVATOR, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY MAINTENANCE, PRESERVATION, OR EXAGGERATION OF
       of the grass shall be at the same level as the adjacent concrete or hard surface. No exceptions.                                                  SLOPES, BERMS, AND SWALES.                                                                                                               9 SHRUBS PER 100 LINEAR FT.                                                          63                                                                                                              72                                                                                                                                                                                           STONE MULCH PLANTING AREAS TO RECEIVE MIN. 12" DEPTH OF QUALITY TOPSOIL. IF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOPSOIL IS PRESENT ON SITE, PROVIDE SOIL TEST TO DETERMINE SOIL QUALITY FOR                                                                                                                                                                                                     1 LANDSCAPE
3.3      PLANTING OPERATIONS                                                                                                                       5.    LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE TO CORRECT ANY DAMAGED OR IMPROPER WATERFLOW OF ALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROPOSED PLANTINGS. PROVIDE 3" DEPTH OF STONE MULCH TOP DRESSING.                                                                                                                                                                                             SYMBOL            DESCRIPTION                                                                           QTY
    A.Review the exact locations of all trees and shrubs with the Project Representative for approval prior to the digging of any holes.                 SWALES, BERMS, OR GRADE                                                                                                                  SOUTH PERIMETER TREE COUNT:                                                          REQUIRED:                                                                                                       PROVIDED:
      Prepare all holes according to the details on the drawings.                                                                                  6.    DEVICES FOR CHANNELING ROOF RUN-OFF SHOULD BE INSTALLED FOR COLLECTION AND DISCHARGE OF                                                  1 SHADE TREE PER 100 LINEAR.FT. (583 FT.)                                            6                                                                                                               23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1-09             5.5" DEEP STEEL EDGING - INSTALL PER MANUFACTURER SPECIFICATION.                      1,152 lf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9 SHRUBS PER 100 LINEAR FT.                                                          53                                                                                                              84                                                                                                                                                                                           1 1/2" GUNSMOKE CRUSHED ROCK                                                                                                                                                                                                           6,092 sf
    B. Water plants immediately upon arrival at the site. Maintain in moist condition until planted.                                                     RAINWATER AT A MINIMUM OF 10' FROM THE FOUNDATION, OR BEYOND THE LIMITS OF FOUNDATION WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STONE MULCH. COLOR: DARK GRAY. SIZE: 1"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1 LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                         BACKFILL; WHICHEVER DISTANCE IS GREATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PLANTING AREAS TO RECEIVE MIN. 12" DEPTH OF QUALITY TOPSOIL. IF TOPSOIL IS                                                                                                                                                                                    SYMBOL            DESCRIPTION                                                                           QTY
    C. Before planting, locate all underground utilities prior to digging. Do not place plants on or near utility lines.                                                                                                                                                                          PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING LOT 1                                                        7% (4,127 SQ FT)                                                                                                 7.8% (4,621 SQ FT)                                                                                                                                                                          PRESENT ON SITE, PROVIDE SOIL TEST TO DETERMINE APPROPRIATE SOIL QUALITY FOR
    D.The tree planting hole should be the same depth as the root ball, and two times the diameter of the root ball.                                                                                                                                                                              TOTAL LANDSCAPING: 40,554 SQ FT (33.4%)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROPOSED PLANTINGS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BOULDERS - DECORATIVE                                                                 46
    E. Trees must be placed on undisturbed soil at the bottom of the planting hole.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING LOT 2                                                        7% (1,393 SQ FT)                                                                                                 7.2% (1,425 SQ FT)                                                                                                                                                                          RIPARIAN SEED MIX                                                                                                                                                                                                                      22,867 sf
    F. The tree hole depth shall be determined so that the tree may be set slightly high of finish grade, 1” to 2” above the base of the trunk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOTAL LANDSCAPING: 13,862 SQ FT (25.38%)
       flare, using the top of the root ball as a guide.
    G.Plant immediately after removal of container for container plants.
      ISSUE DATE                                              PROJECT NUMBER                           PLAN INFORMATION                                                                                        PROJECT INFORMATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DEVELOPER / PROPERTY OWNER / CLIENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT / PLANNER                                      LICENSE STAMP                        DRAWING INFO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Architect:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PM:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JTA
     1/12/2021                                                UT20152                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AE URBIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAPER INNOVATIVE CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAWN:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KBA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                909 W. SOUTH JORDAN PARKWAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHECKED:
NO.        REVISION                                                                  DATE                                   BLUE STAKES OF UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOUTH JORDAN, UT 84095                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JMA
                                                                                                                            UTILITY NOTIFICATION CENTER, INC
1            XXXX                                                                  XX-XX-XX                                 1-800-662-4111                                          N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     801-575-6455                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PLOT DATE:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1/12/2021
                                                                                                                            www.bluestakes.org
2
3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Client / Engineer:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CIR CIVIL ENGINEERING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LANDSCAPE PLAN
4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3032 SOUTH 1030 WEST, SUITE 202
                                                                                                          0'          40'       80'                 160'                                         320'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3450 N. TRIUMPH BLVD. SUITE 102
5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84119
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LP-100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LEHI, UTAH 84043 (801) 960-2698
6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               801-949-6296
                                                                                                                                 GRAPHIC SCALE: 1" = 80'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            www.pkjdesigngroup.com
7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PLANT SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EVERGREEN TREES    CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT    CAL              SIZE



                                                                                                                                                                             (5)Hs's                       (5)Hs's                                                                                                                             (5)Hs's                      (5)Hs's    (1)Ag'f                                          Js'm   9     Juniperus scopulorum `Moonglow`                    B&B                     5`-6`
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Moonglow Juniper

                                                                                                                                     (1)Sr'b         (1)Ag'f                           (1)Up'l                       (1)Ag'f                                                                                             (1)Ag'f                          (1)Up'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1)Sr'b     (1)Sr'b (6)Hs's                                                                                                                                                 Pg'm   9     Picea glauca pendula `Morton Tower`                B&B                     5`-6`
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1)Sr'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Morton Tower Weeping White Spruce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1)Up'l                                          (1)Up'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P'bs   7     Picea omorika `Bruns`                              B&B                     5`-6`
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bruns Spruce

                                                               (1)Ma'm
                                                                (3)Pb'p                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DECIDUOUS TREES    CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT    CAL              SIZE


                                                                                                                                                                                                           (5)Am'h                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ag'f   22    Acer griseum `JFS KW8AGRI` TM                      B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                         (5)Am'h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Fireburst Paperbark Maple
                                                  (3)Hs's                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (3)Am'h                                            (4)Am'h                        (4)Am'h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (3)Am'h         (3)Am'h
                                                    (3)Ax'u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (4)Sb'g                                                         At'g   2     Acer tataricum `GarAnn`                            B&B     Multi-trunked
                                                                                                           (9)Pb'p                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1)Ma'm                                                        Hot Wings Tatarian Maple
                                                                                                                       (2)Ma'm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (3)Pb'p
                                                   (4)Pb'p                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ax'u   11    Acer truncatum x platanoides `JFS-KW187` TM        B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (3)Js'm                                                 Urban Sunset Maple


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bp'p   12    Betula platyphylla `Jefpark`                       B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Parkland Pillar Birch


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1)Pg'm        (2)Hs's                                                                                                                                                           Cc'i   3     Crataegus crus-gali inermis                        B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                         (3)Hs's             (3)Hs's             (2)Hs's             (2)Pg'm                                                         (3)Hs's              (3)Hs's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Gb'p   4     Ginkgo biloba `Princeton Sentry`                   B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                     (3)Sb'g (1)Pg'm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Princeton Sentry Gingko
                                                                                                                                                                   (3)Am'h             (3)Am'h        (2)M'ml                  (1)M'ml                (1)M'ml    (2)M'ml        (3)Am'h             (3)Am'h    (5)Am'h             (1)M'ml                    (5)Sb'g
                                                                                                                     (1)Rf'r                      (5)Am'h
                                                     (1)Ax'u                                     (3)Am'm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ma'm   4     Maackia amurensis `JFS-Schiectell` TM              B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                     (2)Ms'b                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MaacNificent Maackia


                                                                                                (3)Am'm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ms't   4     Malus sargentii `Tina`                             B&B     2"Cal
                                                   (3)Pb'p
                                                                                                                     (2)Ms'b                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Tina Crabapple

                                                                                                                     (1)Rf'r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sr'b   4     Syringa reticulata `Bailnce`                       B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Snowdance Tree Lilac
                                                                                                                       (3)Hs's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Up'l   10    Ulmus parvifolia `Emer II`                         B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Allee Lacebark Elm

                                                                                                                        (3)Am'h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DECIDUOUS SHRUBS   CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Am'm   56    Aronia melanocarpa `UCONNAM165` TM                 5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Low Scape Mound Chokeberry
                                                                                                                        (3)Hs's

                                                                                                                        (3)Am'h                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Am'h   121   Aronia melanocarpa `UCONNAM166` TM                 5 gal
                                                                               (1)Ag'f                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Low Scape Hedger Chokeberry
                                                               (1)Ag'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ca'b   5     Cornus alba `Bailhalo` TM                          5 gal
                                                                            (14)Cs'k                                    (3)Hs's
                                                                    (14)Cs'k                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ivory Halo Dogwood


                                                   (3)Hs's                                                               (3)Am'h                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cs'k   164   Cornus sericea `Kelseyi`                           5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kelseyi Dogwood
                                                   (3)Ax'u
                                                                                             (3)Am'm               (2)Ms'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Po'f   4     Physocarpus opulifolius `UMNHarpell` Fireside TM   5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Fireside Ninebark
                                                                                                                     (1)Rf'r
                                                   (4)Pb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pb'p   70    Prunus besseyi `P011S` TM                          5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pawnee Buttes Sand Cherry


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Rf'r   10    Rhamnus frangula `Ron Williams` Fine Line          5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Fine Line Buckthorn


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sb'g   45    Spiraea betulifolia `Tor Gold` TM                  5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Glow Girl Birchleaf Spirea


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EVERGREEN SHRUBS   CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT
                                                   (3)Pb'p
                                                    (1)Ax'u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Jc'd   35    Juniperus chinensis `Daub`s Frosted`               5 gal
                                                                                                                     (1)Rf'r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Daub`s Frosted Juniper


                                                                                            (5)Am'm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GRASSES            CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT

                                                                                                                     (3)Ms'b                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Cb'k   28    Calamagrostis brachytricha                         1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Korean Feather Reed Grass


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Fm'a   86    Festuca mairei                                     1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Atlas Fescue
                                                                                                                      (3)M'ml

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Hs's   117   Helictotrichon sempervirens `Sapphire`             1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Blue Oat Grass

                                                                                                                        (3)Pg'm
                                                   (3)Hs's                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M'ml   22    Miscanthus sinensis `Morning Light`                2 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Morning Light Maiden Grass
                                                    (1)Ax'u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ms'b   37    Miscanthus sinensis `NCMS2B`                       1 gal
                                                                                                                      (3)M'ml                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bandwidth Maiden Grass
                                                   (4)Pb'p
                                                                             (1)Ag'f
                                                                   (1)Ag'f                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pv's   65    Panicum virgatum `Shenandoah`                      1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Shenandoah Switch Grass
                                                                       (14)Cs'k
                                                               (14)Cs'k                                            (1)Rf'r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                      (3)Am'm

                                                   (3)Hs's
                                                                                                                     (3)Ms'b
                                                    (1)Ax'u
                                                                                                                      (4)Am'm
                                                   (4)Pb'p
                                                                                                                     (1)Ms'b

                                                                             (23)Fm'a                              (1)Rf'r
                  SHEET LP 102                                                                                                    (4)Fm'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHEET LP 102
                                                                   (1)Ag'f                                                                     (3)Ms'b      (1)M'ml
                                                                                                                                                                   (3)P'bs
                                                                        (1)Gb'p
                                                               (17)Cs'k                                                                                              (1)M'ml
    ISSUE DATE                   PROJECT NUMBER             PLAN INFORMATION                                                                         PROJECT INFORMATION                                                                                                                                                              DEVELOPER / PROPERTY OWNER / CLIENT                                        LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT / PLANNER                                      LICENSE STAMP                       DRAWING INFO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Developer / Property Owner:                                                                                                                                                   PM:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JTA
    1/12/2021                    UT20152                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AE URBIA

                                                                                                                                                               DRAPER INNOVATIVE: BLDG A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAWN:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SAV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            909 W. SOUTH JORDAN PARKWAY                                                                                                                           CHECKED:
NO.    REVISION                            DATE                                 BLUE STAKES OF UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH JORDAN, UT 84095                                                                                                                                          JMA
                                                                                UTILITY NOTIFICATION CENTER, INC
1       XXXX                              XX-XX-XX                              1-800-662-4111                                  N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     801-575-6455                                                                                                                                PLOT DATE:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                      287 W. 12300 S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1/12/2021
                                                                                 www.bluestakes.org
2
3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Client / Engineer:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CIR CIVIL ENGINEERING                                                                                                   LANDSCAPE PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAPER, UTAH                                                                                                                       3032 SOUTH 1030 WEST, SUITE 202
4
                                                              0'         10'        20'            40'                                  80'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3450 N. TRIUMPH BLVD. SUITE 102
5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84119
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LP-101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LEHI, UTAH 84043 (801) 960-2698
6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 801-949-6296
                                                                                       GRAPHIC SCALE: 1" = 20'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 www.pkjdesigngroup.com
7
                                                                                                                 (3)Am'm

                                              (3)Hs's
                                                                                                               (3)Ms'b
                                                 (1)Ax'u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PLANT SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                (4)Am'm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EVERGREEN TREES    CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT    CAL              SIZE
                                              (4)Pb'p
                                                                                                               (1)Ms'b
                  SHEET LP 101                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Js'm   9     Juniperus scopulorum `Moonglow`                    B&B                      5`-6`
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHEET LP 101                                                              Moonglow Juniper
                                                                        (23)Fm'a                               (1)Rf'r
                                                                                                                           (4)Fm'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pg'm   9     Picea glauca pendula `Morton Tower`                B&B                      5`-6`
                                                             (1)Ag'f                                                                   (3)Ms'b   (1)M'ml                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Morton Tower Weeping White Spruce

                                                                                                                                                               (3)P'bs
                                                                         (1)Gb'p
                                                             (17)Cs'k                                                                                            (1)M'ml                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P'bs   7     Picea omorika `Bruns`                              B&B                      5`-6`
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bruns Spruce
                                                                                                                                                                (4)BENCHES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DECIDUOUS TREES    CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT    CAL              SIZE
                                                                                                                                                               (1)M'ml




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHEET LP 103
                                                                                                                                                                (3)Ms'b                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ag'f   22    Acer griseum `JFS KW8AGRI` TM                      B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                (1)Fm'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Fireburst Paperbark Maple

                                                                   (3)Pb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       At'g   2     Acer tataricum `GarAnn`                            B&B     Multi-trunked
                                                                                                       (5)Fm'a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Hot Wings Tatarian Maple
                                                                                                         (3)Am'm                                                 (1)Gb'p
                                                                                                            (1)Gb'p                                              (1)M'ml
                                                                                   (3)Hs's                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ax'u   11    Acer truncatum x platanoides `JFS-KW187` TM        B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                           (24)Fm'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Urban Sunset Maple
                                                                                     (1)Ax'u
                                                                                                                                                                              (1)M'ml
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bp'p   12    Betula platyphylla `Jefpark`                       B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                             (4)Pb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                        (3)P'bs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Parkland Pillar Birch


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Cc'i   3     Crataegus crus-gali inermis                        B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                        (2)M'ml                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn
                                                                                                                             (1)Ag'f
                                                                                                                            (14)Cs'k                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gb'p   4     Ginkgo biloba `Princeton Sentry`                   B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                         (3)Pb'p                                                                        (1)M'ml                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Princeton Sentry Gingko
                                                                                                                            (1)Ag'f

                                                                                                                              (14)Cs'k
                                      BI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ma'm   4     Maackia amurensis `JFS-Schiectell` TM              B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MaacNificent Maackia
                                        G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ms't   4     Malus sargentii `Tina`                             B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Tina Crabapple
                                                                                                                                                                                                       (13)Fm'a
                                                  WI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1)Gb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sr'b   4     Syringa reticulata `Bailnce`                       B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Snowdance Tree Lilac
                                                                                                                                                           (1)Ag'f
                                                     LL

                                                                                                                                                           (14)Cs'k                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Up'l   10    Ulmus parvifolia `Emer II`                         B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Allee Lacebark Elm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1)P'bs
                                                                                                                                                            (1)Ag'f
                                                       OW

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DECIDUOUS SHRUBS   CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT
                                                                                                                                                              (14)Cs'k                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Am'm   56    Aronia melanocarpa `UCONNAM165` TM                 5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Low Scape Mound Chokeberry


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Am'h   121   Aronia melanocarpa `UCONNAM166` TM                 5 gal
                                                                                   CR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Low Scape Hedger Chokeberry


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ca'b   5     Cornus alba `Bailhalo` TM                          5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (5)Am'm                                                         (7)Am'm                                                                                                                            Ivory Halo Dogwood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (1)Ms'b   (1)Rf'r      (3)Am'h   (3)Bp'p   (3)Am'h                   (1)Ms'b (1)Rf'r          (10)Am'h
                                                                                      EE

                                                                                                                                                                                         (1)Pb'p                                                                                                                                                             (1)Cc'i                                                   Cs'k   164   Cornus sericea `Kelseyi`                           5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kelseyi Dogwood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (4)Pb'p
                                                                                         K


                                                                                                                                                                                                           (5)Hs's                                                                                                                                                                                                     Po'f   4     Physocarpus opulifolius `UMNHarpell` Fireside TM   5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                           (3)Pb'p                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Fireside Ninebark


                                                                                                                                                                                             (1)Cc'i                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pb'p   70    Prunus besseyi `P011S` TM                          5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pawnee Buttes Sand Cherry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1)Ag'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                              (5)Ca'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (3)Pb'p                                                                                                                                                        Rf'r   10    Rhamnus frangula `Ron Williams` Fine Line          5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (10)Hs's                                                                                                                                                                                                Fine Line Buckthorn


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sb'g   45    Spiraea betulifolia `Tor Gold` TM                  5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (3)Pb'p                                                                    Glow Girl Birchleaf Spirea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1)Cc'i                                      (2)Ax'u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (3)Pb'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (3)Hs's                   (3)Hs's                                                                      EVERGREEN SHRUBS   CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jc'd   35    Juniperus chinensis `Daub`s Frosted`               5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Daub`s Frosted Juniper
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (3)Pb'p

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GRASSES            CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Cb'k   28    Calamagrostis brachytricha                         1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Korean Feather Reed Grass


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Fm'a   86    Festuca mairei                                     1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Atlas Fescue


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (6)Js'm                                                 Hs's   117   Helictotrichon sempervirens `Sapphire`             1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Blue Oat Grass




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET LP 103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M'ml   22    Miscanthus sinensis `Morning Light`                2 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Morning Light Maiden Grass


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ms'b   37    Miscanthus sinensis `NCMS2B`                       1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bandwidth Maiden Grass


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Pv's   65    Panicum virgatum `Shenandoah`                      1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Shenandoah Switch Grass




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE




    ISSUE DATE               PROJECT NUMBER         PLAN INFORMATION                                                                        PROJECT INFORMATION                                                                                                                                                        DEVELOPER / PROPERTY OWNER / CLIENT                                      LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT / PLANNER                                      LICENSE STAMP                       DRAWING INFO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Developer / Property Owner:                                                                                                                                                PM:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JTA
    1/12/2021                UT20152                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AE URBIA

                                                                                                                                                  DRAPER INNOVATIVE: BLDG A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAWN:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SAV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              909 W. SOUTH JORDAN PARKWAY                                                                                                                        CHECKED:
NO.    REVISION                        DATE                              BLUE STAKES OF UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOUTH JORDAN, UT 84095                                                                                                                                       JMA
                                                                         UTILITY NOTIFICATION CENTER, INC
1       XXXX                          XX-XX-XX                           1-800-662-4111                                  N                                                                                                                                                                                                                              801-575-6455                                                                                                                             PLOT DATE:



                                                                                                                                                                                         287 W. 12300 S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1/12/2021
                                                                         www.bluestakes.org
2
3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Client / Engineer:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CIR CIVIL ENGINEERING                                                                                                LANDSCAPE PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAPER, UTAH                                                                                                                                      3032 SOUTH 1030 WEST, SUITE 202
4
                                                        0'       10'        20'                40'                              80'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3450 N. TRIUMPH BLVD. SUITE 102
5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84119
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LP-102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LEHI, UTAH 84043 (801) 960-2698
6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   801-949-6296
                                                                             GRAPHIC SCALE: 1" = 20'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          www.pkjdesigngroup.com
7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PLANT SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EVERGREEN TREES    CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT    CAL              SIZE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Js'm   9     Juniperus scopulorum `Moonglow`                    B&B                      5`-6`
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Moonglow Juniper


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pg'm   9     Picea glauca pendula `Morton Tower`                B&B                      5`-6`
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Morton Tower Weeping White Spruce


                                                                                                                                 (1)Pg'm                                                         (1)Up'l                                                                                                                           P'bs   7     Picea omorika `Bruns`                              B&B                      5`-6`
                                                                                                                                                     (1)At'g
                                                                                                                 (19)Cb'k      (12)Sb'g                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bruns Spruce
                                                                                                                                                                                             (6)Sb'g

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DECIDUOUS TREES    CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT    CAL              SIZE


                                                                                                                                     (1)Rf'r                                                                                                                                                                                       Ag'f   22    Acer griseum `JFS KW8AGRI` TM                      B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Fireburst Paperbark Maple
                                                                                                                                      (3)Cb'k

                                                                                                                                     (1)Ms'b                                                                                                                                                                                       At'g   2     Acer tataricum `GarAnn`                            B&B     Multi-trunked
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1)Ms't                                                                                                         Hot Wings Tatarian Maple
                                                                                                                                     (2)Am'm                                                          (29)Jc'd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (3)Am'h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ax'u   11    Acer truncatum x platanoides `JFS-KW187` TM        B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1)Up'l                                                                                                     Urban Sunset Maple
                                                                                                                                     (2)Am'm                                                                                              (6)Hs's
                     SHEET LP 102




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bp'p   12    Betula platyphylla `Jefpark`                       B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                      (1)Ms'b                                                                                                                                                                                                   Parkland Pillar Birch
                                                                                                                                 (3)Am'h
                                                                                                                                  (2)Bp'p                                                                                                                                                                                          Cc'i   3     Crataegus crus-gali inermis                        B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (3)Am'h                                                                                      Gb'p   4     Ginkgo biloba `Princeton Sentry`                   B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Princeton Sentry Gingko
                                                                                                                                 (3)Am'h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ma'm   4     Maackia amurensis `JFS-Schiectell` TM              B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MaacNificent Maackia
                                                                                                                                    (1)Ms'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1)Ag'f
                                                                                                                                    (2)Am'm                                                                                                                                                                                        Ms't   4     Malus sargentii `Tina`                             B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Tina Crabapple


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sr'b   4     Syringa reticulata `Bailnce`                       B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                     (2)Am'm                                                                                                                                                                                                    Snowdance Tree Lilac

                                                                                                                                     (1)Ms'b                                                          (1)Ag'f
                                                                                                                                 (3)Am'h                                                                                                                                                                                           Up'l   10    Ulmus parvifolia `Emer II`                         B&B     2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Allee Lacebark Elm

                                                                                                                                 (1)Bp'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DECIDUOUS SHRUBS   CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Am'm   56    Aronia melanocarpa `UCONNAM165` TM                 5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Low Scape Mound Chokeberry

                                                                                                                                (1)BENCH                                                                                        (1)Ms't
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Am'h   121   Aronia melanocarpa `UCONNAM166` TM                 5 gal
                                                                                                                                    (1)Ms'b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Low Scape Hedger Chokeberry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1)Up'l
                                                                                                                                    (2)Am'm                                   (1)Ag'f       (1)Ag'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ca'b   5     Cornus alba `Bailhalo` TM                          5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                         (12)Cs'k                                                                                                                                               Ivory Halo Dogwood
                                                                                                                                                                              (12)Cs'k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (6)Hs's
                                                                                                                                     (2)Am'm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cs'k   164   Cornus sericea `Kelseyi`                           5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (3)Am'h                                                                                                        Kelseyi Dogwood
                                                                                                                                     (1)Ms'b
                                                                                                                                 (3)Am'h                                                                                             (1)Ms't
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Po'f   4     Physocarpus opulifolius `UMNHarpell` Fireside TM   5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Fireside Ninebark
                                                                                                                                 (1)Bp'p

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pb'p   70    Prunus besseyi `P011S` TM                          5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pawnee Buttes Sand Cherry
                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1)Ag'f

                                                                                                                                (1)BENCH                                                                                                                                                                                           Rf'r   10    Rhamnus frangula `Ron Williams` Fine Line          5 gal
                                                                                                                                    (1)Ms'b                                                                                                                                                                                                     Fine Line Buckthorn

(1)Cc'i                                                                                                                             (2)Am'm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sb'g   45    Spiraea betulifolia `Tor Gold` TM                  5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1)Ag'f                                                                                                                  Glow Girl Birchleaf Spirea
 (4)Pb'p

                                                                                                                                     (2)Am'm                                                                                                                                                                    EVERGREEN SHRUBS   CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT

                                                                                                                                      (1)Ms'b                                                                                                                                                                                      Jc'd   35    Juniperus chinensis `Daub`s Frosted`               5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Daub`s Frosted Juniper
                                                                                                                                 (3)Am'h
                                                                                                                                  (2)Bp'p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GRASSES            CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cb'k   28    Calamagrostis brachytricha                         1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Korean Feather Reed Grass


                                                                                                                                 (3)Am'h                                                                                    (6)Hs's                                                                                                Fm'a   86    Festuca mairei                                     1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Atlas Fescue

                                                                                                                                    (1)Ms'b                                                                                      (3)Am'h                                                                                           Hs's   117   Helictotrichon sempervirens `Sapphire`             1 gal
                                                                                                                                    (2)Am'm                                                                                                                                                                                                     Blue Oat Grass


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1)Up'l                                                                                 M'ml   22    Miscanthus sinensis `Morning Light`                2 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Morning Light Maiden Grass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (3)Am'h
                                                                                                                                    (6)Cb'k                                                                                                                                                                                        Ms'b   37    Miscanthus sinensis `NCMS2B`                       1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bandwidth Maiden Grass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1)Ms't
                                                                                                                                  (1)Pg'm                                                                                                                                                                                          Pv's   65    Panicum virgatum `Shenandoah`                      1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Shenandoah Switch Grass
                                                                  (16)Fm'a                                                     (1)Bp'p                                                                                (1)Up'l
 (6)Js'm                                                                                  (1)Bp'p
                                                                                                            (1)Bp'p         (4)Po'f
                       SHEET LP 102




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (65)Pv'sl

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                                          (9)Sb'g
                                                                                                                                                      (1)At'g
                                                                                                                                                                                           (6)Sb'g
                                                                                                                                                                (2)Ax'u
                                                                                                                                         (3)Hs's
                                                                                                                                                                    (3)Hs's
                                      SHEET LP 104                                                                                                                                                                              SHEET LP 104
                                                                                                                                         (3)Pb'p




              ISSUE DATE                PROJECT NUMBER          PLAN INFORMATION                                                                   PROJECT INFORMATION                                                                                DEVELOPER / PROPERTY OWNER / CLIENT                   LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT / PLANNER                                      LICENSE STAMP                     DRAWING INFO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Developer / Property Owner:                                                                                                                            PM:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JTA
              1/12/2021                 UT20152                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AE URBIA

                                                                                                                                                          DRAPER INNOVATIVE: BLDG B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAWN:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SAV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             909 W. SOUTH JORDAN PARKWAY                                                                                                    CHECKED:
          NO.    REVISION                             DATE                    BLUE STAKES OF UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                SOUTH JORDAN, UT 84095                                                                                                                    JMA
                                                                              UTILITY NOTIFICATION CENTER, INC
          1       XXXX                               XX-XX-XX                 1-800-662-4111                                N                                                                                                                                                          801-575-6455                                                                                                         PLOT DATE:



                                                                                                                                                                                                               12388 S. 265 W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1/12/2021
                                                                              www.bluestakes.org
          2
          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Client / Engineer:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CIR CIVIL ENGINEERING                                                                             LANDSCAPE PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                               DRAPER, UTAH                                               3032 SOUTH 1030 WEST, SUITE 202
          4
                                                                 0'     10'      20'                40'                            80'                                                                                                                                                                             3450 N. TRIUMPH BLVD. SUITE 102
          5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84119
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LP-103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEHI, UTAH 84043 (801) 960-2698
          6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        801-949-6296
                                                                                  GRAPHIC SCALE: 1" = 20'                                                                                                                                                                                                                www.pkjdesigngroup.com
          7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PLANT SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EVERGREEN TREES    CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT     CAL             SIZE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Js'm   9     Juniperus scopulorum `Moonglow`                    B&B                      5`-6`
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Moonglow Juniper




                                                                                                                                                                                          265 WEST STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pg'm   9     Picea glauca pendula `Morton Tower`                B&B                      5`-6`
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Morton Tower Weeping White Spruce




                                                                                                                                                                                                     (PUBLIC STREET)
                                                                                                                                                                   WAGSTAFF INVESTMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                           LLC                                                                                                                                                                                 P'bs   7     Picea omorika `Bruns`                              B&B                      5`-6`
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bruns Spruce


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DECIDUOUS TREES    CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT     CAL             SIZE
                                                                                                                                NORTH 323.09'
                                                                                                                                SOUTH
                                                                                                                                EAST
                                                                                                                                WEST  323.09'
                                                                                                                                       323.09'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ag'f   22    Acer griseum `JFS KW8AGRI` TM                      B&B      2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Fireburst Paperbark Maple


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               At'g   2     Acer tataricum `GarAnn`                            B&B      Multi-trunked
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Hot Wings Tatarian Maple


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ax'u   11    Acer truncatum x platanoides `JFS-KW187` TM        B&B      2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Urban Sunset Maple


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bp'p   12    Betula platyphylla `Jefpark`                       B&B      2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Parkland Pillar Birch


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Cc'i   3     Crataegus crus-gali inermis                        B&B      2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Gb'p   4     Ginkgo biloba `Princeton Sentry`                   B&B      2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Princeton Sentry Gingko


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ma'm   4     Maackia amurensis `JFS-Schiectell` TM              B&B      2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MaacNificent Maackia


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ms't   4     Malus sargentii `Tina`                             B&B      2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tina Crabapple


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sr'b   4     Syringa reticulata `Bailnce`                       B&B      2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Snowdance Tree Lilac


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Up'l   10    Ulmus parvifolia `Emer II`                         B&B      2"Cal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Allee Lacebark Elm


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DECIDUOUS SHRUBS   CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Am'm   56    Aronia melanocarpa `UCONNAM165` TM                 5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Low Scape Mound Chokeberry


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Am'h   121   Aronia melanocarpa `UCONNAM166` TM                 5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Low Scape Hedger Chokeberry


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ca'b   5     Cornus alba `Bailhalo` TM                          5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ivory Halo Dogwood
                  BI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Cs'k   164   Cornus sericea `Kelseyi`                           5 gal
                  G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kelseyi Dogwood
                   WI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Po'f   4     Physocarpus opulifolius `UMNHarpell` Fireside TM   5 gal
                      LL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1 LANDSCAPE                                                                                                                      Fireside Ninebark
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SYMBOL              DESCRIPTION                                                                    QTY
                       OW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1-09                5.5" DEEP STEEL EDGING - INSTALL PER MANUFACTURER SPECIFICATION.               1,152 lf                             Pb'p   70    Prunus besseyi `P011S` TM                          5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Pawnee Buttes Sand Cherry
                        CR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1 LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SYMBOL              DESCRIPTION                                                                    QTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Rf'r   10    Rhamnus frangula `Ron Williams` Fine Line          5 gal
                           EE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BOULDERS - DECORATIVE                                                          46                                                Fine Line Buckthorn
                              K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1 LANDSCAPE                                                                                                         Sb'g   45    Spiraea betulifolia `Tor Gold` TM                  5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SYMBOL              DESCRIPTION                                                                    QTY                                               Glow Girl Birchleaf Spirea

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SODDED LAWN AREA                                                               9,288 sf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LAWN AREAS SHALL BE SOD. NEW TURF AREAS TO BE SODDED WITH 18% "BLUESTAR                          EVERGREEN SHRUBS   CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KENTUCKY BLUEGRASS, 19% "MARQUIS" KENTUCKY BLUEGRASS, 17% "NEWPORT"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KENTUCKY BLUEGRASS, 17% "TOUCHDOWN" KENTUCKY BLUEGRASS, 16% "APM                                                    Jc'd   35    Juniperus chinensis `Daub`s Frosted`               5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PERENNIAL RYEGRASS, 13% "ACCENT PERENNIAL RYEGRASS OR APPROVED EQUAL AT                                                          Daub`s Frosted Juniper
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A RATE OF 220 LBS. PER ACRE. FINE LEVEL ALL AREAS PRIOR TO LAYING SOD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ALL LAWN AREAS SHALL BE IRRIGATED WITH 100% COVERAGE BY POP-UP SPRAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HEADS AND GEAR-DRIVEN ROTORS. ALL DECIDUOUS AND CONIFER TREES PLANTED                            GRASSES            CODE   QTY   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                            CONT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WITHIN SOD AREAS SHALL HAVE A FOUR FOOT(4`) DIAMETER TREE RING COVERED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WITH CHOCOLATE BROWN BARK MULCH, NO SHREDDED FINES. SUBMIT SAMPLES TO                                               Cb'k   28    Calamagrostis brachytricha                         1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BE APPROVED BY LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT AND OWNER BEFORE INSTALLATION.                                                                Korean Feather Reed Grass



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WOOD MULCH PLANTING AREAS TO RECEIVE MIN. 12" DEPTH OF QUALITY TOPSOIL. IF     4,926 sf                             Fm'a   86    Festuca mairei                                     1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOPSOIL IS PRESENT ON SITE, PROVIDE SOIL TEST TO DETERMINE SOIL QUALITY FOR                                                      Atlas Fescue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROPOSED PLANTINGS. PROVIDE 3" DEPTH OF SHREDDED WOOD MULCH TOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRESSING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Hs's   117   Helictotrichon sempervirens `Sapphire`             1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Blue Oat Grass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1" DESERT ROSE CRUSHED ROCK                                                    13,992 sf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STONE MULCH PLANTING AREAS TO RECEIVE MIN. 12" DEPTH OF QUALITY TOPSOIL. IF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOPSOIL IS PRESENT ON SITE, PROVIDE SOIL TEST TO DETERMINE SOIL QUALITY FOR                                         M'ml   22    Miscanthus sinensis `Morning Light`                2 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROPOSED PLANTINGS. PROVIDE 3" DEPTH OF STONE MULCH TOP DRESSING.                                                                Morning Light Maiden Grass



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1 1/2" GUNSMOKE CRUSHED ROCK                                                   6,092 sf                             Ms'b   37    Miscanthus sinensis `NCMS2B`                       1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STONE MULCH. COLOR: DARK GRAY. SIZE: 1"                                                                                          Bandwidth Maiden Grass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLANTING AREAS TO RECEIVE MIN. 12" DEPTH OF QUALITY TOPSOIL. IF TOPSOIL IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PRESENT ON SITE, PROVIDE SOIL TEST TO DETERMINE APPROPRIATE SOIL QUALITY FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROPOSED PLANTINGS.                                                                                                 Pv's   65    Panicum virgatum `Shenandoah`                      1 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Shenandoah Switch Grass

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RIPARIAN SEED MIX                                                              22,867 sf




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REFERENCE NOTES SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                                                 INLAND COCACOLA
                                                                                                                                                   BOTTLING CORP

    ISSUE DATE             PROJECT NUMBER      PLAN INFORMATION                                           PROJECT INFORMATION                                                                                                    DEVELOPER / PROPERTY OWNER / CLIENT                                                                  LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT / PLANNER                                      LICENSE STAMP                   DRAWING INFO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Developer / Property Owner:                                                                                                                                                                            PM:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JTA
    1/12/2021              UT20152                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AE URBIA

                                                                                                               DRAPER INNOVATIVE CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAWN:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SAV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        909 W. SOUTH JORDAN PARKWAY                                                                                                                                                    CHECKED:
NO.    REVISION                      DATE                   BLUE STAKES OF UTAH                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH JORDAN, UT 84095                                                                                                                                                                  JMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TM
                                                            UTILITY NOTIFICATION CENTER, INC
1       XXXX                        XX-XX-XX                1-800-662-4111                     N                                                                                                                                                                  801-575-6455                                                                                                                                                         PLOT DATE:



                                                                                                                                                 12300 S. 265 W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1/12/2021
                                                            www.bluestakes.org
2
3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Client / Engineer:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CIR CIVIL ENGINEERING                                                                                                                           COLOR PLAN

                                                                                                                                                 DRAPER, UTAH                                                                                        3032 SOUTH 1030 WEST, SUITE 202
4
                                                0'    20'      40'             80'                 160'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3450 N. TRIUMPH BLVD. SUITE 102
5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84119
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LP-COLOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEHI, UTAH 84043 (801) 960-2698
6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             801-949-6296
                                                                GRAPHIC SCALE: 1" = 40'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            www.pkjdesigngroup.com
7
 EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS
2/9/2021 9:24:58 AM




                                                                                                                       ZONE: CBP (Commercial Business Park)
                                                                                                                       BUILDING DESIGN STANDARDS
                                                                                                                       2. Buildings with facades one hundred feet (100') or greater in total length shall have at least one significant facade variation from the primary wall plane whose depth is at least five feet (5') and
                                                                                                                       whose width is at least twenty feet (20'). There shall be no uninterrupted facades one hundred feet (100') or greater in length. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
                                                                                                                       Materials: Quality long lasting materials shall be required for all buildings in order to contribute to the aesthetics of the community over the long term. Permanence in design and construction will
                                                                                                                       add to the overall value and sustainability of the community.
                                                                                                                          1. Minimum Colors: A minimum of three (3) colors per elevation shall be required.
                                                                                                                          2. Color Utilization: Color utilization should be sensitive to existing development within the vicinity and the natural landscape in which the project is situated.
                                                                                                                          3. Primary Materials: Brick, stone, ceramic tile, wood or concrete fiber composite siding, concrete masonry units (CMU), metal composite material, and architectural precast concrete are
                                                                                                                               acceptable primary materials. CMU must be colored and feature decorative or architectural finishes such as honed, scored, offset or split face. Gray CMU block is not an acceptable
                                                                                                                               finished building material and shall not be permitted on any finished building elevation with the exception of minimal foundation exposure. The following guidelines shall apply when
                                                                                                                               designing a commercial or industrial building:
                                                                                                                            a. Each building face shall have a minimum of two (2) primary materials. At least seventy five percent (75%) of each building's finished face shall be in primary materials.
                                                                                                                            b. When brick is used as a primary material, it may be utilized up to one hundred percent (100%) of the facade material, in which case, no secondary primary material will be required.
                                                                                                                            c. Doors, glass and roofing materials shall not be included in the calculations of primary and secondary materials.
                                                                                                                          4. Secondary Materials: Secondary materials may include stucco; EIFS, including specialty finishes; metal, excluding corrugated sheet metal; exposed concrete; vinyl; shake shingles or wood
                                                                                                                               siding. Materials such as awnings, wood timbers and other similar features will be considered accent and not figured into the totals of secondary materials.
                                                                                                                          5. Tilt-Up Concrete: Exposed tilt-up concrete may be used as a primary material on buildings located in all manufacturing zones and in the CBP zoning classification. Some variation in materials
                                                                                                                               along the base and near the entrances of concrete tilt-ups is required.


                                                                                                                       09-22-030: DEVIATION FROM DESIGN STANDARDS:

                                                                                                                       B:     Deviation Criteria: The planning commission shall take into consideration at least three (3) of the following criteria in considering a deviation of design standards:

                                                                                                                              1.         The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
                                                                                                                                         Pedestrian gathering areas along the willow creek through the site. Benches to be places along the sidewalk along 123000 South.
                                                                                                                              8.         Additional landscape plant material is provided in an amount at least ten percent (10%) more than the minimum required, including additional planting beds, plants, trees or a
                                                                                                                                         combination thereof.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                         To be worked out with the landscape architect.
                                                                                                                              10.        The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%) greater than the minimum required amount.
                                                                                                                                         Painted tilt-up concrete will be used for a majority of the building, which is an approved primary material in this zone.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NOT FOR
                                                                                                                       In the dock and overhead door elevations of Building A the facades exceed 100' but do not feature wall plane depth variations of at least 5' as required by item #2 at the top of this list. We                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONSTUCTION
                                                                                                                       would like to propose that the above items under "Deviation from Design Standars" be used as a substitution for the facade variation requirement.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2/9/2021 9:24:58 AM


                                                                                                               D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P001

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A4
                                                                                                                                            1         2                          3                   4                        5                       6                               7
                                                                                                                                                                                                               255'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAPER INNOVATION - BUILDING A
                                                                                                                                          5'-0"                 60'-0"                   40'-0"               40'-0"                     50'-0"                     60'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5'-0"
                                                                                                                                    K                                                                                                                                                                               K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D5       D3
                                                                                                                                    J                                                                         FIRE RISER                                                                                            J


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               56'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FABRAL HEFTI-RIB IN DOVE GREY                         SW6258 TRICORN BLACK                       SW2849 WESTCHESTER                             SW7628 WINDFRESH                              SW7586 STOLEN KISS                 GRAY GLAZING                  60 MIL WHITE TPO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ACCENT WALL CLADDING                                  WALLS & METALS                          WALLS & METAL DOORS                                 WALLS                                         WALLS                   STOREFRONTS & GLASS DOORS           ROOF MEMBRANE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BADIEE DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                    H                                                                                                                                                                               H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        287 WEST 12300 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PRIMARY MATERIAL #1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 95% TILT-UP CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. WALL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PRIMARY MATERIAL #2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       145' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               56'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5% FABRAL HEFTI-RIB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. WALL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             K        J                             H                       G                               F                       E                           D                             C                B                           A           143' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HEFTI-RIB                                                   HEFTI-RIB                                                                                                                          T.O. WALL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       141' - 0"
                                                                                                                                   G                                                                                                                                                                                G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CLEAR HEIGHT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       132' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                      STORAGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FUTURE MEZZ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               56'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       114' - 0"
                                                                                                               C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       100' - 0"

                                                                                                                                    F                                                                                                                                                                               F

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C3    PRESENTATION - WEST ELEVATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ANY PROHIBITED USE OF THESE DRAWINGS OR DESIGN SHOWN ARE SUBJECT TO LEGAL ACTION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P001   1" = 30'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               56'-0"




                                                                                                                       P001 C3                                                                                                                                                                                    B3 P001
                                                                                                                                                                                                            BUILDING A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        453'-0"




                                                                                                                                    E                                                                                                                                                                               E


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. WALL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       145' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               56'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. WALL 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ANY REPRODUCTION, COPYING OR USE OTHER THAN FOR THIS SPECIFIC PROJECT IS PROHOBITED WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF AE URBIA ARCHITECTS & ENGINEERS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A                            B                        C                               D                       E                           F                             G                H                           J       K       143' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HEFTI-RIB                                                                    HEFTI-RIB                                                                         T.O. WALL 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Revision Date
                                                                                                                                    D                                                                                                                                                                               D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  141' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CLEAR HEIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       132' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               56'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FUTURE MEZZ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       114' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Revision Schedule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       100' - 0"
                                                                                                                                    C                                                                                                                                                                               C


                                                                                                               B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B3    PRESENTATION - EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               56'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P001   1" = 30'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THESE DRAWINGS AND THE DESIGN SHOWN HAVE BEEN PREPARED FOR THIS SPECIFIC PROJECT AS AN INSTRUMENT OF SERVICE AND SHALL REMAIN THE SOLE PROPERTY OF AE URBIA ARCHITECTS & ENGINEERS AND THEIR CONSULTANTS.
                                                                                                                                    B                                                                                                                                                                               B
C:\Users\gthomas\Documents\AE2020.336 - BADIEE DEVELOPMENT - Draper Industrial - Building A_gavinbthomas.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AE2020.336
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T.O. WALL 3                                                                                                                                           T.O. WALL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    145' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               56'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          145' - 0"                                 BUILDING A -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T.O. WALL 2                                                                                                                                           T.O. WALL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7                               6                               5             4                   3                               2       1       143' - 0"                               1       2                             3        4                   5                   6                  7   143' - 0"                                 SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HEFTI-RIB                                                                              HEFTI-RIB                                   T.O. WALL 1                                                                                                    HEFTI-RIB              HEFTI-RIB       T.O. WALL 1                               APPROVAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    141' - 0"                                                                                                                                             141' - 0"
                                                                                                                                    A                                                                                                                                                                               A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CLEAR HEIGHT                                                                                                                                          CLEAR HEIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    132' - 0"                                                                                                                                             132' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT STATUS
                                                                                                                                            1         2                          3                   4                        5                       6                               7                                                                                                                                                                                                             FUTURE MEZZ.                                                                                                                                          FUTURE MEZZ.                              DATE:                                    PROJECT ISSUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                               A2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   114' - 0"                                                                                                                                             114' - 0"                                                                          DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 1                                                                                                                                               LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                              P001                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100' - 0"                                                                                                                                             100' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHEET #:

                                                                                                                             A5         PRESENTATION FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                                              A4    PRESENTATION - NORTH ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                                     A2        PRESENTATION - SOUTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                            P001        1" = 30'-0"                                                                                                                                                                         P001   1" = 30'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                       P001       1" = 30'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P001




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2/9/2021 9:24:58 AM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NORTH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COPYRIGHT
                                                                                                               A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AE URBIA, LLC.
                                                                                                                   5                                                                                                                              4                                                                                                                          3                                                                                                                  2                                                                                                        1
2/4/2021 4:29:15 PM




                                                                                                                       ZONE: CBP (Commercial Business Park)
                                                                                                                       BUILDING DESIGN STANDARDS
                                                                                                                       2. Buildings with facades one hundred feet (100') or greater in total length shall have at least one significant facade variation from the primary wall plane whose depth is at least five feet (5') and
                                                                                                                       whose width is at least twenty feet (20'). There shall be no uninterrupted facades one hundred feet (100') or greater in length. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
                                                                                                                       Materials: Quality long lasting materials shall be required for all buildings in order to contribute to the aesthetics of the community over the long term. Permanence in design and construction will
                                                                                                                       add to the overall value and sustainability of the community.
                                                                                                                          1. Minimum Colors: A minimum of three (3) colors per elevation shall be required.
                                                                                                                          2. Color Utilization: Color utilization should be sensitive to existing development within the vicinity and the natural landscape in which the project is situated.
                                                                                                                          3. Primary Materials: Brick, stone, ceramic tile, wood or concrete fiber composite siding, concrete masonry units (CMU), metal composite material, and architectural precast concrete are
                                                                                                                               acceptable primary materials. CMU must be colored and feature decorative or architectural finishes such as honed, scored, offset or split face. Gray CMU block is not an acceptable
                                                                                                                               finished building material and shall not be permitted on any finished building elevation with the exception of minimal foundation exposure. The following guidelines shall apply when
                                                                                                                               designing a commercial or industrial building:
                                                                                                                            a. Each building face shall have a minimum of two (2) primary materials. At least seventy five percent (75%) of each building's finished face shall be in primary materials.
                                                                                                                            b. When brick is used as a primary material, it may be utilized up to one hundred percent (100%) of the facade material, in which case, no secondary primary material will be required.
                                                                                                                            c. Doors, glass and roofing materials shall not be included in the calculations of primary and secondary materials.
                                                                                                                          4. Secondary Materials: Secondary materials may include stucco; EIFS, including specialty finishes; metal, excluding corrugated sheet metal; exposed concrete; vinyl; shake shingles or wood
                                                                                                                               siding. Materials such as awnings, wood timbers and other similar features will be considered accent and not figured into the totals of secondary materials.
                                                                                                                          5. Tilt-Up Concrete: Exposed tilt-up concrete may be used as a primary material on buildings located in all manufacturing zones and in the CBP zoning classification. Some variation in materials
                                                                                                                               along the base and near the entrances of concrete tilt-ups is required.


                                                                                                                       09-22-030: DEVIATION FROM DESIGN STANDARDS:

                                                                                                                       B:      Deviation Criteria: The planning commission shall take into consideration at least three (3) of the following criteria in considering a deviation of design standards:

                                                                                                                               1.      The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
                                                                                                                                       Pedestrian gathering areas along the willow creek through the site. Benches to be places along the sidewalk along 123000 South.
                                                                                                                               8.      Additional landscape plant material is provided in an amount at least ten percent (10%) more than the minimum required, including additional planting beds, plants, trees or a
                                                                                                                                       combination thereof.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                       To be worked out with the landscape architect.
                                                                                                                               10.     The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%) greater than the minimum required amount.
                                                                                                                                       Painted tilt-up concrete will be used for a majority of the building, which is an approved primary material in this zone.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NOT FOR
                                                                                                                       The exterior facades of Building B exceed 100' but do not feature wall plane depth variations of at least 5' as required by item #2 at the top of this list. We would like to propose that the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONSTUCTION
                                                                                                                       above items under "Deviation from Design Standars" be used as a substitution for the facade variation requirement.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2/4/2021 4:29:15 PM


                                                                                                               D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P001

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             125' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                           1                   62' - 6"                         2                62' - 6"                    5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAPER INNOVATION - BUILDING B
                                                                                                                                                                     F                                                                                                                                                    F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FABRAL HEFTI-RIB IN DOVE GREY               SW6258 TRICORN BLACK      SW2849 WESTCHESTER                      SW7628 WINDFRESH                               SW7586 STOLEN KISS                     GRAY GLAZING                    60 MIL WHITE TPO


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   63' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ACCENT WALL CLADDING                        WALLS & METALS         WALLS & METAL DOORS                          WALLS                                          WALLS                       STOREFRONTS & GLASS DOORS             ROOF MEMBRANE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BADIEE DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PRIMARY MATERIAL #1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12388 SOUTH 265 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              95% TILT-UP CONCRETE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PRIMARY MATERIAL #2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5% FABRAL HEFTI-RIB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. WALL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    137' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A                                                     B                              C                                            D                                                       E                                             F                      T.O. WALL 2
                                                                                                                                                                     E                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HEFTI-RIB                                                                                                                                             HEFTI-RIB                                                        135' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T.O. WALL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    133' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CLEAR HEIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   56' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    124' - 0"

                                                                                                               C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FUTURE MEZZ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    112' - 0"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                     D                                                                                                                                                    D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         100' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ANY PROHIBITED USE OF THESE DRAWINGS OR DESIGN SHOWN ARE SUBJECT TO LEGAL ACTION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BUILDING B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C3      PRESENTATION - EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              294' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   56' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C3 P001   P001     1/16" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                 P001 B3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T.O. WALL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    137' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T.O. WALL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     F                                                     E                              D                                            C                                                       B                                             A                      135' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HEFTI-RIB                                                                                                                                                                                                          HEFTI-RIB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T.O. WALL 1
                                                                                                                                                                      C                                                                                                                                                   C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ANY REPRODUCTION, COPYING OR USE OTHER THAN FOR THIS SPECIFIC PROJECT IS PROHOBITED WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF AE URBIA ARCHITECTS & ENGINEERS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    133' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Revision Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CLEAR HEIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    124' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   56' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FUTURE MEZZ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    112' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Revision Schedule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    100' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                         B                                                                                                                                                B

                                                                                                               B                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B3      PRESENTATION - WEST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P001     1/16" = 1'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. WALL 3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. WALL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       137' - 0"                                                                                                                                                   137' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   63' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5                                                     2                                    1                                                1                                                         2                                           5                       T.O. WALL 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THESE DRAWINGS AND THE DESIGN SHOWN HAVE BEEN PREPARED FOR THIS SPECIFIC PROJECT AS AN INSTRUMENT OF SERVICE AND SHALL REMAIN THE SOLE PROPERTY OF AE URBIA ARCHITECTS & ENGINEERS AND THEIR CONSULTANTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. WALL 2                                                                                                                                                 135' - 0"
C:\Users\gthomas\Documents\AE2020.336 - BADIEE DEVELOPMENT - Draper Industrial - Building B_gavinbthomas.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HEFTI-RIB                       135' - 0"                                   HEFTI-RIB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. WALL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. WALL 1                                             AE2020.336
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   133' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       133' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FIRE RISER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING B -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CLEAR HEIGHT                                                                                                                                                CLEAR HEIGHT                              SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                         A                                                                                                                                                A                                                                                                                                            124' - 0"                                                                                                                                                   124' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             APPROVAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FUTURE MEZZ.                                                                                                                                                FUTURE MEZZ.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       112' - 0"                                                                                                                                                   112' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                           1                                                    2                                            5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT STATUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 1                                                                                                                                                     LEVEL 1                                   DATE:                                    PROJECT ISSUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       100' - 0"                                                                                                                                                   100' - 0"                                                                          DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P001


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHEET #:
                                                                                                                                                                              A5    LEVEL 1 Presentation                                                                                                                                     A3      PRESENTATION - NORTH ELEVATION                                                                                                         A2    PRESENTATION - SOUTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                             P001   1" = 20'-0"                                                                                                                                             P001     1/16" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                         P001   1/16" = 1'-0"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P001




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2/4/2021 4:29:15 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NORTH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COPYRIGHT
                                                                                                               A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AE URBIA, LLC.
                                                                                                                   5                                                                                                                                 4                                                                                                           3                                                                                       2                                                                                                               1
