                             Development Review Committee
                                  1020 East Pioneer Road
                                    Draper, UT 84020
                                        April 14, 2021

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: April 22, 2021

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov

Re:      700 E Draper Medical–Site Plan Request
         Application No.: SPR-0007-2021
         Applicant:        Adam Watts, representing North Star Builders
         Project Location: 12188 S 700 E
         Current Zoning: CN (Neighborhood Commercial) Zone
         Acreage:          0.48 Acres (Approximately 20,909 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Site Plan in the CN zone regarding the
                           construction of a medical office building.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 0.48 acres located
on the west side of 12200 S, at approximately 12188 S 700 E (Exhibit B). The property is
currently zoned CN. The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan be approved to allow for
the development of the currently vacant site as a medical office building. This is currently
an undeveloped property that is part of the Draperville Plat. Additionally the applicant is
applying for a deviation to Design Standards, specifically Draper City Municipal Code
(DCMC) Section 9-22-050(A)(5).



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Neighborhood
Commercial land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is



700 E Draper Medical                                                 App. # SPR-0007-2021
Site Plan Request                              1
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the CN zoning classification (Exhibit D). According to DCMC
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the CN zone is to “The purpose of the CN zone is to provide
areas where convenience buying outlets, having small trade areas, may be established to serve
surrounding residential neighborhoods. This zone is intended to promote a combination of retail
and service facilities which, in character and scale, meet day to day needs of nearby residents.”
The property is surrounded by the CN zone to the north and east; RA1 (Residential
Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) to the west and the OR (Office Residential)
zone to the south.

Site Plan Layout. The property is 0.48 acres, and the proposed building will be located on
the east end of the property; facing west. The building is also two stories in height and is
approximately 7,767 ft² (Exhibit E). The property will be accessed off 12200 south; and
landscaping surrounds the building and the parking lot.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. The proposed landscape plan for the site is proposing 32%
site landscaping exceeding the requirement of 20% for the site. The internal parking lot
landscaping requirement is 7% for the site and the applicant is proposing 8% (Exhibit F).
The proposed landscaping will consist of trees, shrubs, ornamental grasses, perennials,
landscape boulders and rocks. Additionally on the west property line, the applicant, under



700 E Draper Medical                                                   App. # SPR-0007-2021
Site Plan Request                               2
DCMC Section 9-23-110(C)(1), has proposed a reduction in landscaping buffer requirements
next to residential uses. The applicant is proposing an 8-foot solid wall and a 12-foot
landscape buffer. This complies with DCMC and the Zoning Administrator is authorized to
approve this request.

             9-23-110 (C). Reductions:
             1. The zoning administrator or designee may reduce land use buffer requirements
             based on the character of specific uses, building orientations, topographic features,
             or other unique characteristics of adjoining uses. A reduced buffer shall consist of a
             minimum ten foot (10') wide landscape buffer and an eight foot (8') tall, solid, sight
             obscuring fence in compliance with all other specifications of 9-23-110(A)(5).

Parking. The applicant has proposed 29 parking spaces for the site including 2 ADA stalls.
The minimum/maximum allowed parking range for this site is 27-33 parking stalls. The
applicant is meeting DCMC parking standards for this proposed site.

Architecture. The building is 2 stories tall and is 35-feet in total height. The building is also
articulated vertically and horizontally on all facades. The building design standards per
DCMC Section 9-22-040(F) states that the building must have at least 75% primary materials
for each façade and must have a minimum of three (3) colors per elevation. The applicants
proposed design has primary materials brick, wood composite material, and composite
metal panel. The applicant is at least 75% on all facades for primary materials, complying
with the DCMC (Exhibit F).

Architectural Design Standards Modification. Chapter 22 of the DCMC makes provisions for
the Planning Commission to authorize deviations to strict compliance with the terms of the
Code regarding development design standards. DCMC Section 9-22-030 states that the
Planning Commission may approve site plans that deviate from the requirements of the
design standards within Chapter 22 of the DCMC based on making certain required
findings in whole. Per DCMC Section 9-22-030(b), the Planning Commission shall find an
application complies with at least three of the following criteria:

         1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in
            excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
         2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space
            area exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
         3. The project is a transit oriented development (TOD) and provides connectivity to
            a transportation facility.
         4. Traffic impacts on the neighborhood are lessened through programs, such as
            creative design, traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit pass
            programs.
         5. The project is an accredited LEED development.




700 E Draper Medical                                                      App. # SPR-0007-2021
Site Plan Request                                 3
         6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
             master plan or ordinance.
         7. The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases
             which involve redeveloped buildings, additions to existing buildings, minor
             structures added to a site, or new buildings within a previously approved phased
             project.
         8. Additional landscape plant material is provided in an amount at least ten
             percent (10%) more than the minimum required, including additional planting
             beds, plants, trees or a combination thereof.
         9. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or
             modern, which utilizes facade materials differently than prescribed in
             subsection 9-22-040F of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.
         10. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
             greater than the minimum required amount.

The applicant has requested a modification to Design Standards of the DCMC Section 9-22-
050(A)(5).

                  A. Building Placement: Building placement is integral to the site design and the
                     overall effect any development has on surrounding properties. Building
                     placement shall be carefully considered as part of the overall development
                     review.
                  5. Main entrances shall be oriented toward the street rather than parking in
                     cases where buildings can be located adjacent to the public right of way.

The applicant has stated that they meet criteria 2, 6, 9 and 10 (Exhibit H) from the required
deviation criteria found in DCMC Section 9-22-050(A)(5):

          2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space
             area exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).

             Applicant Response: As indicated in our site plan submittal to Draper City, we
             currently have provided private landscaping which equates to thirty-two percent
             (32%) of the site area which exceeds the required amount, twenty percent (20%), by
             more than ten percent (10%).

          6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
             master plan or ordinance.

             Applicant Response: The variation that we are requesting is consistent with the
             purpose of Chapter 9-22 and other ordinances found throughout the code in that: (1)
             the higher quality design presented will bring further value to the commercial
             community and attract businesses which positively contribute to the quality of life for



700 E Draper Medical                                                      App. # SPR-0007-2021
Site Plan Request                                  4
             Draper citizens as evidenced by a similar look across the street where both buildings
             are full with medical tenants; (2) this deviation will ensure a quality development by
             allowing Draper citizens to easily navigate the building given the site constraints for a
             narrow lot; (3) the code encourages building presence in the streetscape and this
             design accomplishes this directive; and (4) the building demonstrates imaginative
             design, Increased landscaping and reflects the character of surrounding development
             through similar positive and desirable features.

          9. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or
             modern, which utilizes facade materials differently than prescribed in
             subsection 9-22-040F of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.

             Applicant Response: The design of the building is dedicated to a modern approach
             utilizing horizontal design features, stack painted brick and a simple yet elegant
             glazing articulation which will further contribute to the aesthetics of the community
             along 700 East and mirror the two buildings directly across the street for a cohesive
             design aesthetic. The building utilizes façade materials differently in that the building
             is dedicated to utilizing materials that are 100% primary materials including brick,
             wood plank composite siding and metal composite siding. In addition, the building
             has been designed by Five Degrees Design, a well-respected licensed architect here in
             the State of Utah whose design and layouts can be found on Draper City’s very own
             website.

         10. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
              greater than the minimum required amount.

             Applicant Response: We have met this criteria in that both the north and south facing
             facades have fifteen percent (15%) and ten percent (10%) more primary material
             than the seventy-five (75%) minimum required respectively.

The applicant is proposing to have the front of the building face the parking lot, facing west,
rather than face the public right-of-way as required by code. Pedestrians will be able to
enter from the parking lot versus walking around the building.

Lighting. The applicant did submit the required lighting plan and photometric analysis for
the site which complies with DCMC requirements. They will have two pole lights for the
parking lot, surface mounted wall lights for the entrance and outside of the building.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Site Plan request is
found in Sections 9-5-090(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for
such requests as:




700 E Draper Medical                                                        App. # SPR-0007-2021
Site Plan Request                                  5
         E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a
             site plan:
             1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development
                plan is approved.
             2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including
                but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
                landscaping, and building materials.
             3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
                general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
             4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the
                subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
             5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards
                found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water
                drainage, and utilities concerns.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Site Plan submission. Comments from
these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, in working with the
Draper City Building and Engineering Divisions, have completed their reviews of the
geotechnical report submitted as a part of the Site Plan. Comments from Taylor Geo-
Engineering, LLC, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Site Plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the Site Plan and Deviation
request, receive public comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below



700 E Draper Medical                                                      App. # SPR-0007-2021
Site Plan Request                                 6
and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

            1.    That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                  Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                  site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
            2.    That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
                  development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
            3.    Per DCMC Section 9-5-090(J) failure to obtain a land disturbance permit
                  within one year of approval of any site plan shall void the prior site plan
                  approval. Prior to the expiration of the one-year period, an applicant may
                  submit a written request with the community development department for a
                  site plan extension of up to six (6) months. Approval of this extension may
                  only be granted by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission,
                  whichever is the approval authority outlined in this section, provided the
                  applicant can meet the requirements for extension under section 9-5-030
                  and demonstrate substantial action toward obtaining a land disturbance
                  permit.
            4.    That the applicant update or remove their fence detail on Sheet AS501 to
                  show an 8-foot fence.

The findings for approval as are follows:

            1. The entire site is being developed at one time.
            2. A site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title, including
               but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
               landscaping, and building materials, with the exception of approved
               deviations listed in this report.
            3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
               general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
            4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the
               subject development, as required by engineering standards and
               specifications.
            5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards
               found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm
               water drainage, and utilities concerns.

The findings for denial as are follows:




700 E Draper Medical                                                    App. # SPR-0007-2021
Site Plan Request                                7
            1. The Site Plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title,
               including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
               landscaping, and building materials.
            2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and
               objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which
               the site is located.
            3. The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the
               subject development, as required by engineering standards and
               specifications.
            4. The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering
               standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic,
               storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.



MODEL MOTIONS

Deviation Request.
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation request for Building
Placement, as requested by Adam Watts, representing Northstar Builders, application SPR-
0007-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated April 14, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation request for
Building Placement, as requested by Adam Watts, representing Northstar Builders,
application SPR-0007-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated April 14, 2021, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation request for Building
Placement, as requested by Adam Watts, representing Northstar Builders, application SPR-
0007-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated April 14, 2021.

Site Plan.
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Site Plan, as requested by Adam
Watts, representing Northstar Builders, application SPR-0007-2021, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 14, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Site Plan, as requested
by Adam Watts, representing Northstar Builders, application SPR-0007-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 14, 2021, and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:



700 E Draper Medical                                                    App. # SPR-0007-2021
Site Plan Request                                8
         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Site Plan, as requested by Adam Watts,
representing Northstar Builders, application SPR-0007-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 14, 2021.




700 E Draper Medical                                             App. # SPR-0007-2021
Site Plan Request                              9
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. That the Applicant finalize any requirements, conditions, to finalize the approval to
      include conditions in this report, the DCMC; and Draper City before permitting.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
      construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division
      and is required prior to Building Permit issuance. – Informational comment, no action
      required at this time.
   2. Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained
      through the Engineering Division. – Informational comment, no action required at this
      time.

   3. Curb, gutter, park strip, and sidewalk improvements required on all public right-of-
      way frontages per DCMC 9-27-100. – Applicant has requested to provide an Assessment-
      in-Lieu for the frontage improvements. Signed and paid agreement will be required prior
      to issuance of Land Disturbance Permit.

Building Division Review.

   1. None.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review.

   1. Proposed construction will consist of a two story commercial building with slab on
       grade floors. Basement construction is not planned for the structure. Structural
       loads for the building are anticipated to consist of column loads up to 150 kips and
       wall loads up to 5 kips per lineal foot.
    2. All organics, topsoil, existing fill and other deleterious material should be removed
        from below proposed building and pavement areas.
   3. Footings for the buildings may be supported on undisturbed native soils or on
        compacted structural fill extended to native soils.
   4. Footings for the structure may be designed using an allowable bearing capacity of
       3,000 psf.
   5. Footings should have a minimum width of 18 inches for strip footings and 24 inches
      for spot footings.
   6. Footings susceptible to frost should be located a minimum depth of 30 inches.
   7. Seismic analysis of proposed structures at the site should be based on the following
      spectral response design accelerations:
               a. 0.2 sec (short period) SDS = 0.970g, and;
               b. 1.0 sec (long period) SD1 = 0.629g.
      The spectral response acceleration values were factored using Site Class = D.
   8. Floor slabs may be supported on undisturbed native soils or compacted structural
      fill extending to undisturbed native soils.
   9. Floor slabs should be underlain by at least 4-inches of free draining gravel.
  10. No special cement is required for concrete placed in contact with natural soil.
  11. A qualified geotechnical engineering firm should observe the placement of
      structural fill/backfill and conduct in-place field density tests on the structural
      fill/backfill to confirm moisture content and relative compaction is in accordance
      with the recommendations presented by CMT.
  12. Before the placement of concrete, a letter from the geotechnical engineer should be
      obtained that indicates subgrade for footing and floor slab support was prepared in
      accordance with the geotechnical report and ready for the placement of concrete.
  13. Gutters should discharge beyond the limits of backfill.
  14. Surface drainage should slope away from the structure in all directions with a 5
      percent grade for the first 10 feet.
  15. All import materials should be approved by the Geotechnical Engineer.
  16. All compaction for interior and exterior backfill adjacent to the building should be
      verified by the geotechnical engineer.

Fire Division Review.

 1.    Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
       twenty-four (24) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen
       (13) feet six (6) inches shall be required. The road must be designed and maintained
       to support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The surface shall be able to
       provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall have an inside turning radius
       of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be
       checked prior to building permits being issued.
 2.    Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA13 fire sprinkler shop
       drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draperutah.gov .
       A complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations.
       Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There
       needs to be a hydrant with-in a 100 feet of the FDC.) FDC is required to have KNOX
       Locking Caps. ALL FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO
       BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
3.   Post Indicator Valve with Tamper May Be Required. If there is no designated fire
     riser room with a direct access door from the outside. There shall be either a wall
     mounted P.I.V (OS&Y) or a typical P.I.V placed a minimum distance of 40 feet from
     the building with a tamper switch.
4.   Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to be
     sent via email to the following to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draperutah.gov. A
     complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans
     must be stamped by a NICET level III or better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE
     ALARM PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE
     DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
5.   Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
     address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property.
     These numbers shall contrast with their background.
6.   Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted to
     exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the exterior
     access to the fire sprinkler riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the top of the box)
     Lock box purchase can be arranged by the General Contractor. See attached
     information form.
7.   2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable
     type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a
     conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and immediately
     available for use. Placed every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or not the extinguisher
     or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not more than five (5) feet above
     the floor.

     Notes:

     Plan approval or review shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
     responsibility of any person designing, owning, operating or controlling any
     building. Damages to persons or property caused by defects, fire, improper
     installation, or other emergency conditions that occur in or on the building property
     shall not hold the Draper City Fire Department as assuming any liability.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
                                                                                  SITE PLAN KEY NOTES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SALT LAKE CITY, UT. 84106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      573 EAST 2700 SOUTH
                                                                                        1
                                                                                             FURNISH AND INSTALL SIDEWALK PER DRAPER CITY                                                             12    FURNISH AND INSTALL 6' FENCE, DETAILS BY OTHERS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AVAIL ENGINEERS
                                                                                             STANDARD PLAN ST-12. SEE SHEET C1-1.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAPER CITY CODE: 9-25-090 NATURAL ADJUSTMENT RANGE
                                                                                             FURNISH AND INSTALL CURB AND GUTTER PER DRAPER
                                                                                        2    CITY STANDARD PLAN ST-10. SEE SHEET C1-1.                                                                13    12200 SOUTH IMPROVEMENTS BY DRAPER CITY.


                                                                                             FURNISH AND INSTALL CURB AND GUTTER (SPILL). SEE                                                               FURNISH AND INSTALL DUMPSTER ENCLOSURE,
                                                                                                                                                                                                      14
                                                                                        3    SHEET C1-1.                                                                                                    REFERENCE ARCHITECTURE PLANS FOR DETAILS

                                                                                             FURNISH AND INSTALL ADA RAMP PER APWA STANDARD                                                                 PROPOSED BUILDING LOCATION, REFERENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                      15
                                                                                        4    PLAN 236.3. SEE SHEET C1-1                                                                                     ARCHITECTURE PLANS FOR DETAILS.

                                                                                             FURNISH AND INSTALL ADA PARKING SIGN PER A1. SEE                                                         16    FURNISH AND INSTALL STAIRS TO FUTURE SIDEWALK.
                                                                                        5    SHEET C1-1

                                                                                             FURNISH AND INSTALL ADA VAN PARKING SIGN PER A1.                                                         17    SERVICE UTILITY, SEE SHEET C4-0 FOR DETAILS
                                                                                        6
                                                                                             SEE SHEET C1-1

                                                                                             FURNISH AND INSTALL RADIUS DRIVE APPROACH PER
                                                                                             DRAPER CITY STANDARD PLAN ST-09, NO CENTER CURB
                                                                                        7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAPER CITY CODE: 9-23-100A.2 PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING
                                                                                             BARRIER NEEDED. SEE SHEET C1-1.

                                                                                        8    FURNISH AND INSTALL ASPHALT PAVEMENT & BASE PER
                                                                                             DRAPER CITY STANDARDS, SEE C1-1 FOR CROSS SECTION.

                                                                                        9    SAWCUT EXISTING ASPHALT PER DRAPER CITY STANDARD
                                                                                             DETAIL ST-19.

                                                                                             FURNISH AND INSTALL CONCRETE PAVEMENT & BASE PER
                                                                                        10
                                                                                             DRAPER CITY STANDARDS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LAND DEDICATION LEGEND:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3/3/2021




                                                                                             FURNISH AND INSTALL 8' PRECAST CONCRETE FENCE, SEE                                                                                                                                                                                       PROPOSED DRAPER DEDICATION
                                                                                        11
                                                                                             SHEET C1-2 FOR DETAILS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JONES, COREY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PARCEL # 28293010040000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S89°54'00"E 247.78'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1-800-662-4111




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10'
                                                                                                                                                                            14                                                 12                                     3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  801-208-2100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.41'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ohe
                                                                                                                                                                   12'
                                                                                              PARCEL # 28304260080000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ohe
                                                                                                ALLAN, DIANNE R; TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               56.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          18'                                   3                                                                                   17
                                                                                                                        N0°06'00"E 82.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S0°16'55"E 82.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARKING STOP                                                                                                                 T
                                                                                                                                                                                                              8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                25.49'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T
                                                                                                                                                  10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (ROW 130'±)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                65.03'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          700 EAST DRAPER MEDICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 700 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T
                                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7'
                                                                                                                                                        11                                                                                                                                                                                            9'               9'      5'

                                                                                                                                                                     2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       693 EAST 12200 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5                                  15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          18'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10                                                                                                        OBSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                          24'                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3               5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TRIANGLE
R:\Projects\20-013 Watts Draper\100_CAD\4_Site Design\20-013_C1-0_Site Plan.dwg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    17                              ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                                                                                                                              .6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2o' he
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CO                               2                                                                                                                                    CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd           sd             sd         sd          sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5                 16                                                                                              ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N89°54'03"W 248.33'                                                                                                                         ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ohe                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ohe                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROPOSED DRAPER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ohe                                                                                                                                                                                                             DEDICATION 15 SF±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ohe                                                                          W           W                                                                                                                                                                                                    ohe
                                                                                  ohe               ohe                                     ohe              ohe    ohe         ohe   ohe   ohe       ohe         ohe    ohe        ohe          ohe                                                                                                       ohe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ohe       ohe       ohe            ohe       ohe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ohe        ohe       ohe         ohe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ohe         ohe                 ohe                                                                                                                                                                                                  ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ohe             ohe     ohe                                                                                                                    ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CITY RESUBMITTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ohe             ohe            ohe                                   ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                             13                                                                                                                           13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13

                                                                                                                                                                                      7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12200 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (ROW 75'±)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.2.2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
3/3/2021 4:46 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ohe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ohe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOCATED IN THE NW 1/4 OF SECTION 29, T.3S., R.1E, S.L.B.&M. SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TJB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DETAILED BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.2.2021            TJB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DETAILED BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.2.2021        CC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CHECKED BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.2.2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT #:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20-013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C1-0
   EXHIBIT F
LANDSCAPE PLAN
 EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                1                                                                     2                                                         3                                                                                                       4                                                         5

                                                                                                                BUILDING MATERIAL              TOTALS         TOTALS                                                                                                                                                                                     BUILDING MATERIAL              TOTALS
                                                                                                                                                 75%                 85%                  +10% FOR DEVIATION CRITERIA                                                                                                                                                                      75%
                                                                                                          OVERALL BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OVERALL BUILDING
                                                                                                                                   2,607 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2,306 SF
                                                                                                            FACADE AREA                        1,955 SF        2,215 SF                                                                                                                                                                           FACADE AREA                            1,729 SF

                                                                                                          PRIMARY MATERIAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PRIMARY MATERIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FIVE DEGREES DESIGN
                                                                                                                 BRICK             1,694 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BRICK          870 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1457 EAST 840 NORTH
                                                                                                                 WOOD               534 SF     2,315 SF        2,315 SF                                                                                                                                                                                     WOOD           727 SF        1,851 SF                                                                                       OREM, UTAH 84097
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           801.960.9381
                                                                                         A                   METAL PANEL            87 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                              METAL PANEL         254 SF                                                                                                  chris@fivedegreesdesign.com

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DATE:           03 MARCH 2021
                                                                                                       TOTAL SQ FT AREA                                   PRIMARY MATERAL AREA (BLACK METAL                             PRIMARY MATERAL AREA (WOOD                                                                         TOTAL SQ FT AREA                                             PRIMARY MATERAL AREA (BLACK METAL           PRIMARY MATERAL AREA (WOOD PLANK              PROJECT #:             20-070
                                                                                                       OUTLINE - 2,607 SQ FT                              COMPOSITE PANEL) = 87 SQ FT TOTAL                             PLANK COMPOSITE SIDING,                                                                            OUTLINE - 2,306 SQ FT                                        COMPOSITE PANEL) = 254 SQ FT TOTAL          COMPOSITE SIDING, WALNUT) = 727 SQ FT TOTAL   DRAWN BY:                RDW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WALNUT) = 534 SQ FT TOTAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CHECKED BY:                BF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PRIMARY MATERAL AREA (PAINTED
                                                                                                                                                                                     MECHANICAL SCREEN                                                                                                                                                                                                         MECHANICAL SCREEN    WHITE BRICK) = 870 SQ FT TOTAL                REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PRIMARY MATERAL AREA (PAINTED




                                                                                                                                                               5' - 8 3/8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1 PLANNING        03.01.2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WHITE BRICK) = 1,694 SQ FT TOTAL                         ZONING MAX                                                                                                                                                           ZONING MAX                    REVIEW #1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HEIGHT                                                                                                                                                               HEIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     135' - 0"                                                                                                                                                            135' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOP OF PEAK                                                                                                                                                          TOP OF PEAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     134' - 8"                                                                                                                                                            134' - 8"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ROOF                                                                                                                                                                 ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      130' - 0"                                                                                                                                                            130' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SKEWED ELEVATION PORTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SECOND LEVEL                                                                                                                                                        SECOND LEVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     115' - 0"                                                                                                                                                           115' - 0"

                                                                        B



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MAIN LEVEL                                                                                                                                                          MAIN LEVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      100' - 0"                                                                                                                                                           100' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SKEWED ELEVATION


                                                                                              B1     NORTH ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                                                           B4     EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                             AE201                                                                                                                      1                                                                                     AE201
                                                                                                     SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                              SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"


                                                                                                                 BUILDING MATERIAL             TOTALS          TOTALS                                                                                                                                                                                    BUILDING MATERIAL              TOTALS
                                                                                                                                                  75%                        85%          +10% FOR DEVIATION CRITERIA                                                                                                                                                                      75%
                                                                                                            OVERALL BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OVERALL BUILDING
                                                                                                                                    2,197 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2,288 SF
                                                                                                              FACADE AREA                       1,647 SF        1,867 SF                                                                                                                                                                         FACADE AREA                             1,716 SF

                                                                                                            PRIMARY MATERIAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PRIMARY MATERIAL

                                                                                                                    BRICK           1,257 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                BRICK          703 SF

                                                                                                                    WOOD             262 SF     1,872 SF        1,872 SF                                                                                                                                                                                    WOOD           706 SF        1,864 SF

                                                                                         C                    METAL PANEL            353 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                            METAL PANEL         455 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              03/03/2021
                                                                                                                       TOTAL SQ FT AREA                         PRIMARY MATERAL AREA (BLACK METAL                                                                                                                     TOTAL SQ FT AREA                                                     PRIMARY MATERAL AREA (BLACK METAL       PRIMARY MATERAL AREA (WOOD PLANK COMPOSITE
                                                                                                                       OUTLINE - 2,197 SQ FT                    COMPOSITE PANEL) = 353 SQ FT TOTAL                                                                                                                    OUTLINE - 2,288 SQ FT                                                COMPOSITE PANEL) = 455 SQ FT TOTAL      SIDING, WALNUT) = 706 SQ FT TOTAL

                                                                                                                                                                             PRIMARY MATERAL AREA (WOOD                 PRIMARY MATERAL AREA                                                                                                                                                                                           PRIMARY MATERAL AREA (PAINTED
C:\Users\ben\Documents\20-070 Draper MOB - Adam\03 Drawings\02 Revit\Draper MOB V3.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                             COMPOSITE PLANK SIDING, WALNUT)            (PAINTED WHITE BRICK) = 1,257                                                                                                                                                                                  BRICK) = 703 SQ FT TOTAL                              PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                             = 262 SQ FT TOTAL                          SQ FT TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                          MECHANICAL SCREEN                                                                                                                                                                                                  MECHANICAL SCREEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ZONING MAX                                                                                                                                                ZONING MAX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HEIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             135' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HEIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       135' - 0"                       700 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOP OF PEAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             134' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOP OF PEAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       134' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAPER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ROOF                                                                                                                                                  ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MEDICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  130' - 0"                                                                                                                                             130' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ADDRESS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  693 E 12200 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SKEWED ELEVATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SECOND LEVEL                                                                                                                                              SECOND LEVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            115' - 0"                                                                                                                                                 115' - 0"
                                                                                         D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ARCHITECTURAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAIN LEVEL                                                                                                                                               MAIN LEVEL                     BUILDING ELEVATIONS
3/3/2021 1:09:50 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              100' - 0"                                                                                                                                                100' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SKEWED ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                               ENTRANCE

                                                                                              D1     SOUTH ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                                                           D4     WEST ELEVATION
                                                                                             AE201   SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"


                                                                                                                1                                                                     2                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AE201   SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AE201
     EXHIBIT H
DEVIATION REQUEST
February 25, 2021

Travis Van Ekelenburg
Planner II
Draper City Planning Division

Re: Adam Watts 700 E Draper Medical Site Plan
Application # SPR-0007-2021
Address: 12188 S 700 E


Dear Planning Commission,

This letter is in response to Draper City’s comments made on February 18th as it relates to our initial site plan
submittal and more particularly involving the main entry location of our proposed building.

This letter will seek to articulate how we meet at least three (3) of the below criteria for a deviation of design
standards as detailed in Section 9-22-050(A)(5) to allow us to proceed with our main entry location oriented
toward our parking lot rather than the street.

Deviation Criteria: The planning commission shall take into consideration at least three (3) of ten (10) criteria
in considering a deviation of design standards. Below we list the criteria that we believe we meet to have a
deviation approved:

    1. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or modern, which utilizes
       facade materials differently then prescribed in subsection 9-22-040F of this chapter and is designed
       by a licensed architect.
           a. The design of the building is dedicated to a modern approach utilizing horizontal design
                features, stack painted brick and a simple yet elegant glazing articulation which will further
                contribute to the aesthetics of the community along 700 East and mirror the two buildings
                directly across the street for a cohesive design aesthetic. The building utilizes façade materials
                differently in that the building is dedicated to utilizing materials that are 100% primary
                materials including brick, wood plank composite siding and metal composite siding. In
                addition, the building has been designed by Five Degrees Design, a well-respected licensed
               architect here in the State of Utah whose design and layouts can be found on Draper City’s
               very own website.

   2. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%) greater than the
      minimum required amount.
          a. We have met this criteria in that both the north and south facing facades have fifteen percent
             (15%) and ten percent (10%) more primary material than the seventy-five (75%) minimum
             required respectively.

   3. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space exceeds the
      required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
          a. As indicated in our site plan submittal to Draper City, we currently have provided private
              landscaping which equates to thirty-two percent (32%) of the site area which exceeds the
              required amount, twenty percent (20%), by more than ten percent (10%).

   4. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan or
      ordinance.
          a. The variation that we are requesting is consistent with the purpose of Chapter 9-22 and other
              ordinances found throughout the code in that: (1) the higher quality design presented will
              bring further value to the commercial community and attract businesses which positively
              contribute to the quality of life for Draper citizens as evidenced by a similar look across the
              street where both buildings are full with medical tenants; (2) this deviation will ensure a
              quality development by allowing Draper citizens to easily navigate the building given the site
              constraints for a narrow lot; (3) the code encourages building presence in the streetscape and
              this design accomplishes this directive; and (4) the building demonstrates imaginative design,
              increased landscaping and reflects the character of surrounding development through similar
              positive and desirable features.




Five Degrees Design, LLC




Ben Ferry
Architect - AIA
Five Degrees Design




                                                                                                   Page 2 of 2
