                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                 July 30, 2021

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: August 12, 2021

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov

Re:     Liz June’s Atelier – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-0105-2021
        Applicant:         Elizabeth Lazaro
        Project Location: 617 E Stokes Ave.
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² min area) Zone
        Acreage:           0.37 Acres (Approximately 16,117 ft2)
        Request:           Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                           Permit in the RA2 zone regarding a home business making and
                           selling candles and soaps.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.37 acres located on the north side of Stokes Ave, at approximately 617 E
Stokes Ave (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting that
a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow the applicant to make
candles and soaps for sale.

The home is part of the Lone Peak Meadows Phase III Subdivision and has single-family
home that was built in 2001.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential



Liz June’s Altier                                                App. # USE-0105-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request         1
Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, supporting approximately
two dwelling unit per acre (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density development with little
impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
city's semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these
zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.” The subject property is surrounded by the RA2 zoning
designation.

Home Occupation Request. The applicant is requesting to make soaps and candles out of
the home for sale. This use is classified as a cottage business and requires a conditional
use permit to be run out of a home.

    DCMC 9-3-040
    COTTAGE BUSINESS: A business where products are created in the home. The products are



Liz June’s Altier                                                     App. # USE-0105-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
    unique in nature, such as handicraft, art, and jewelry. Limited food production can also be
    considered. Anything that uses a material, a mixture of materials or a quantity of materials
    that could be classified by the fire marshal or building official as dangerous or hazardous
    will not be allowed.

It is the applicant’s intent to have the products made and sold as a wholesale product to
retailers, and then eventually an online business. There will be no other employees other
than the homeowner. There will be no customers going to the home as the applicant will
sell the products to retailers and online. Additionally, there will not be any business
vehicles. The applicant’s personal vehicle will not have any signage for the business and
the subject property will retain the appearance of a single family home.

The applicant will be utilizing an office room in the home for the business that totals 135 ft²
for the business, and this will include supplies and any business related materials (Exhibit
E). Additionally the applicant has completed the applicant questionnaire that is attached to
the end of this report (Exhibit F).

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are as
follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
            resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
            the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             The applicant will be the only employee for the business and is the owner of the
             home.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
            and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

             The applicant will comply having a business license and having it maintained.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
            employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
            limited to one person.

             The applicant will be the only employee for the business.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
            other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
            city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.




Liz June’s Altier                                                       App. # USE-0105-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     3
             The applicant will comply with any of these inspections and requirements.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
            fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

             The applicant will only be utilizing one room that is 135 ft² for the home business
             complying with this requirement.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
            exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
            dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
            benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
            provide parking required for a home occupation.

             There will be no modifications to the home thus retaining the residential
             appearance of the home.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
            offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
            magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             There will not be any nuisance activity produced by this home business.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
            primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
            disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
            is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
            for the home occupation.

             The residential home will remain the primary use, the business secondary.

        I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.

             There will be no signage on the home or the vehicles at the residence.

        J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.

             The business will not have any customers coming to the home so the traffic will
             not be any different than any residential home in the neighborhood.




Liz June’s Altier                                                        App. # USE-0105-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     4
        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
            vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
            would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
            shall be allowed on vehicles.

             The applicant will only utilize their own personal vehicle. They will have no
             signage on their personal vehicles for the home business.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
            any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

             All of the storage and use for the business will take place in one room inside the
             home, complying with this requirement.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             There will not be customers coming to the home and the daycare/preschool
             does not apply to this business.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
            excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

             This home business will have a very small impact on utility demands and will not
             utilize differently than other homes in the neighborhood.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.

             All business activity will be conducted within the home.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
            conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
            dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
            this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
            letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
            case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
            vehicles.

             This is a single family home and the applicant complies with this requirement.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
            state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but



Liz June’s Altier                                                     App. # USE-0105-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
             not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
             Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
             childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
             seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
             inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
             under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

             This home business does not involve child care.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
            of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
            where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
            zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
            conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
            location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
            relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
            expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
            cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
            denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
            conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
            conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
            achieve compliance with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,



Liz June’s Altier                                                    App. # USE-0105-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.



Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:




Liz June’s Altier                                                  App. # USE-0105-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
    1. All requirements of the Draper City Fire Department, Building Division, and Business
       License Division shall be satisfied throughout the operation of the home occupation
       on the property.
    2. The home occupation is required to maintain approval and adequate licensure from
       any and all necessary agencies.

The findings for approval as are follows:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
       anticipated detrimental effects

The findings for denial as are follows:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
       alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Elizabeth Lazaro, application USE-0105-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 30, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Elizabeth Lazaro, application USE-0105-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 30,
2021, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Elizabeth Lazaro, application USE-0105-2021, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 30, 2021.




Liz June’s Altier                                                 App. # USE-0105-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. No Comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other
      utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as described.
      Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant
      impact to water, sewer, or other utilities.

   2. The number of trips generated by the home owner/employee will not have a detrimental
      impact to traffic in the area due no indication of clients visiting the house. The applicant
      indicated how the products will be provided as wholesale to retailers, then would
      eventually create his/her website.

   3. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare
      of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property or
      improvements in the vicinity.

Building Division Review.

   1. No Comments.

Fire Division Review.

   1.   2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable
        type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a
        conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and immediately
        available for use. Placed on every level of the home. If in cabinet or not the
        extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not more than five
        (5) feet above the floor.

  2.    Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
        address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property.
        These numbers shall contrast with their background.
Notes:

Plan approval or review shall not, be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility
of any person designing, owning, operating or controlling any building. Damages to
persons or property caused by defects, fire, improper installation, or other emergency
conditions that occur in or on the building property shall not hold the Draper City Fire
Department as assuming any liability.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
 EXHIBIT E
FLOOR PLAN
        EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT QUESTIONNAIRE
Elizabeth Lazaro HOCUP application for Liz June’s Atelier

1. What is the present use of the property (Manufacturing, Agricultural, Residential,
   Commercial)?

       Current use of the property is a residential home.

2. What is the proposed use? Be specific as to use, hours of operation, number of
employees, etc.

       Making homemade candles and soaps in one room of the home. I will be the
       only employee. There will be no hours of operation for customers or anyone to
       come to my home to purchase or work for me. I will work hours that work into my
       family life.

3. Please discuss how the proposed use will “fit-in” with surrounding uses.

       It will continue to fit in as a residential home. The making of these handmade
       products will not be visible to the surrounding residents. It will not interfere with
       any traffic or appearance of the home.

4. What type of service will it provide to the City of Draper?

       I will be providing handmade soap and candle products as wholesale to retailers
       and would eventually have my own website.

5. Is the proposed use consistent with the current zoning & land use designation?
Please explain.

       Yes it would fall under a cottage business in a residential zone. I will be the only
       employee and reside at this address. There will be no modification of structures
       or storage of any supplies visible outside. There will be no extra vehicles at the
       home for the purpose of the business. All of the production of handmade items
       will take place the the main structure.

6. Is the proposed use similar or compatible to other uses in the same area? Please
explain.

       Yes it will be compatible with other uses in the area. It will not be visibly
       noticeable to fellow residents. I will follow the standards and permitted use for
       cottage businesses.

7. Is the proposed use suitable for the proposed site? Please explain.

       Yes, no modification or changes to the home need to be done. Requires the use
       of one room in the home.
8. Will the proposed use emit noise, glare, dust, pollutants, & odor? Please explain.

      No, there will be no noise that can be heard outside of the home. There will also
      be no product of odor, pollutants, or dust to interfere with fellow residents.

9. What will be the hours of operation & how many people will be employed? Please
specify if any employees will not be residents of the home.

      There will be one employee, me. I reside at this home. There are no set hours of
      operation. I will be making products in my spare time during day time hours.

10. If applicable, how many clients will come to the home daily?

      Not applicable, there will be no clients coming to the home.
