                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, Utah 84020



                                           STAFF REPORT
                                            May 18, 2021

To:                      Draper City Planning Commission
                         Business Date: May 27, 2021

From:                    Development Review Committee

Prepared By:             Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                         Planning Division
                         Community Development Department
                         (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:      Michel Fence—Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: USE-048-2021
         Applicant:        Ben Michel
         Project Location: Approximately 1257 E. Manfield Way
         Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot minimum) Zone
         Acreage:          Approximately 0.94 acres (approximately 40,946 square feet)
         Request:          Approval to increase fence height to eight feet for a portion of the
                           rear lot lines on the east and west sides of the property.



SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
0.94 acres located on the north side of Manfield Way, at approximately 1257 E. Manfield
Way (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a
Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for an increased fence height to 8-feet in a
single family residential zone deviating from the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
maximum height of 6-feet. The subject parcel is part of the Somerville in Draper No. 1 plat
that was recorded in March 1980.




Michel Fence                                                            App # USE-048-2021
Conditional Use Permit                            1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan identifies the property as
Residential Low Medium Density (see Exhibit C). This category is characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA1 zoning classification, which allows both residential
and agricultural uses (see Exhibit D). According to DCMC Section 9-8-020 “The purpose of
the RA1 and RA2 zones is to foster low density development with little impact on its
surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's
semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in
these zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from
encroachment by commercial and industrial uses”.




Michel Fence                                                         App # USE-048-2021
Conditional Use Permit                        2
The property is surrounded on the south, east and west with RA1 zoning. To the north is
OS (Open Space) and is Draper City Park.

Fencing. The subject property backs up to a parking lot in Draper City Park. The applicant’s
property is approximately two feet lower in elevation than the parking lot. The applicant
would like to fence his property, but in order to make the fence all the same height, a
portion of the fencing along the east and west property lines will need to be increased to
eight feet. The fence would be eight feet but from the parking lot of the park, it would
appear to be six feet tall. The eight foot section of fence will extend for approximately 130
feet from the rear property line and connect to a six foot fence along the rear property line.
This will make the fencing around the rear yard all the same height.

DCMC Section 9-27-080(A)(2) stats: “when located behind the front wall plane a fence, wall,
or other visual obstruction, not including trees, shall not exceed six feet (6') in height unless
a greater height is allowed by a conditional use permit or as otherwise permitted in this
title.” The submittal from the applicant, including photos of the proposed fence and letters
of support from neighbors, can be found in Exhibit E.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Conditional Use
Permit request is found in DCMC Section 9-5-080(E). This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

E.       Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of
         a conditional use permit:
         1.     A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
                where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
                zone.
         2.     Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially
                mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
                These conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction,
                character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and
                other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such
                conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the
                conditional use permit.
         3.     If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional
                use cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable
                conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional
                use may be denied.
         4.     The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining
                whether a conditional use permit application should be approved, approved
                with conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be
                imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:




Michel Fence                                                             App # USE-048-2021
Conditional Use Permit                          3
                  a.     The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
                         and requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
                  b.     The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
                  c.     Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or
                         existing development in the vicinity;
                  d.     The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                         surrounding area;
                  e.     The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                         surrounding area;
                  f.     The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                         transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
                         screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian
                         and vehicular circulation;
                  g.     The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                         emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
                         proposed facility or use; and
                  h.     The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
                         welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property
                         in the area.
         5.       The planning commission may request additional information as may be
                  reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this
                  subsection E can be met.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions has completed their review of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.




Michel Fence                                                            App # USE-048-2021
Conditional Use Permit                          4
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Building, and Planning
         Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the fence, including
         permitting.
2.       Unless there is substantial action under a conditional use permit within one year
         from the date of its issuance, said permit shall expire and shall have no further force
         or effect. A written request may be submitted to the Community Development
         Department prior to expiration of the conditional use permit for an extension of up
         to six (6) months, subject to approval of the Planning Commission, provided
         substantial action is shown toward establishing the conditional use and the
         requirements for extension under Section 9-5-030 of this chapter are met.

The findings for approval as are follows:

1.       Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
         anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

1.       Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
         alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval
I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Ben Michel,
application USE-048-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated May 18, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval
I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Ben Michel,
application USE-048-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated May 18, 2021, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:




Michel Fence                                                            App # USE-048-2021
Conditional Use Permit                          5
1.       List any additional findings and conditions . . .

Sample Motion for Denial
I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as requested as requested by Ben Michel,
application USE-048-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated May 18, 2021.




Michel Fence                                                         App # USE-048-2021
Conditional Use Permit                            6
                                    EXHIBIT A
                               DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
      EXHIBIT E
APPLICANT’S SUBMITTAL
