                                    ORDINANCE NO. 1473

       A ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DRAPER,
       UTAH, AMENDING CHAPTER 7-2 OF THE DRAPER CITY
       MUNICIPAL CODE PERTAINING TO SEWAGE DISPOSAL

        WHEREAS, Draper City (“City”) may construct, maintain, and operate works for
sewer collection and treatment and may authorize the construction, maintenance, and operation
of the same by others in order to maintain the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens;

        WHEREAS, the South Valley Sewer District (“District”) provides those services within
the City;

       WHEREAS, the City desires amend its ordinances pertaining to sewer service at the
request of the District;

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER
CITY, STATE OF UTAH:

Section 1. Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following findings to
amend Title 7 of the Draper City Municipal Code: 1) Federal regulations governing the
treatment and disposal of sewage have changed; 2) State regulations governing the treatment
and disposal of sewage have changed; 3) The amendments in this ordinance reflect the changes
of federal and state regulations and comply with the Utah Code Annotated; 4) The proposed
amendment is in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Draper.

Section 2. Revision. Title 7 of the Draper City Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as
shown in Exhibit “A” attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

Section 3. Correction of Editing Errors. The City Attorney is authorized to correct any
punctuation, spelling, formatting, or similar errors prior to submitting the Ordinance to
American Legal Publishing’s Code Library.

Section 4. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid, or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance, and all sections, parts, and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final
passage.
     PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, ON THIS ___ DAY OF _____________, 2021.

                                       By: ________________________
                                       Mayor Troy K. Walker
ATTEST:
___________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder

VOTE TAKEN         :     YES NO
Councilmember Green      _____ _____
Councilmember T. Lowry   _____ _____
Councilmember F. Lowry   _____ _____
Councilmember Roberts    _____ _____
Councilmember Vawdrey    _____ _____
Mayor Walker             _____ _____
                                     Exhibit A
CHAPTER 2
SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
7-2-010: Purposes
7-2-020: Definitions
7-2-030: Regulating Authority
7-2-040: Connections; Private Systems
7-2-050: Subdivisions And Other Developments
7-2-060: Pretreatment And Permits
7-2-070: Interference With Sewer System And Operations
7-2-080: Discharge Prohibitions
7-2-090: Reporting
7-2-100: Prevention Of Prohibited Discharges
7-2-110: Effect Of Amendment
7-2-120: Penalties
7-2-130: Appendices

7-2-010: PURPOSES:
Sewer facilities and services to all of the residents of the city are provided by South Valley
sewer district. The SVSD provides sewage treatment through the Jordan Basin water
reclamation facility (JBWRF), the South Valley water reclamation facility (SVWRF), and the
Timpanogos special service district by contract. To preserve and promote the health, safety
and welfare of its residents, and in cooperation with the SVSD, the city has determined that
regulation of sewage disposal within and by the city is necessary and desirable. It is also in the
public interest that the city participates in achieving a degree of uniformity in the areas served
by the treatment facilities and enables those facilities to comply with applicable state and
federal law. (Ord. 1167, 11-10-2015)

7-2-020: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context specifically requires otherwise:
BUILDING PERMIT: Any building permit issued pursuant to title 9 or 10 of this code.
CESSPOOL: A pit or hole in the ground used for final sewage disposal.
CITY: Draper City, a municipal corporation of the state of Utah.
DISCHARGE: To cause a substance to enter the sewer system by any means, whether directly
or indirectly.
FINAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL: The depositing of sewage in the earth, water or elsewhere, under
circumstances which, in time, cause oxidation, together with dissipation or absorption of the
sewage.
INDUSTRIAL USER: Any user of the sewer system who discharges wastewater from commercial
or industrial processes.
INTERFERENCE: A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from
other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes, operations, or sludge
processes, use or disposal; and therefore, causes the POTW to violate its permit.
JBWRF: The Jordan Basin water reclamation facility.
OCCUPANT: Any person in possession of the property mentioned, either by claim or of right or,
with the consent or acquiescence of the owner of such property.
ORDINARY DOMESTIC SEWAGE: Sewage of the type and contents commonly discharged from
homes, as distinguished from businesses or industries.
OUTHOUSE: A building or other structure located over a cesspool.
OWNER: Any person holding or claiming title, legal or equitable, to the property mentioned,
whether alone or in conjunction with others.
POTW: A publicly owned treatment works.
PASS-THROUGH: A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state in quantities or
concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other
sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's permit, including an
increase in magnitude or duration of a violation.
PERSON: Includes any natural person and any corporation, partnership or other separate legal
entity, as well as the employer of any other person acting within the scope of his or her
employment, the principal of any person who is an agent with respect to sewer matters, or the
contractor of any person entering into a contract with respect to sewer matters.
PRIVY VAULT: A structure for containing sewage prior to final sewage disposal, unless such
structure is located in a vehicle.
PROHIBITED SUBSTANCE: Any substance listed, described, or referred to as prohibited in this
chapter or section 7-2-130, appendix A of this chapter.
SVSD: The South Valley sewer district, an improvement district organized and existing
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated title 17B, chapter 2a, part 4, as amended, its employees,
agents and assigns.
SVWRF: South Valley water reclamation facility.
SEPTIC TANK: Any means of final sewage disposal which is located principally underground,
but does not include the public sewer system.
SERVICE AREA 3: Describes that portion of the SVSD sewer system located in Utah County, and
where sewage flows to and is treated by, the TSSD. A map of service area 3 is provided in
section 7-2-130, appendix AB of this chapter.
SEWAGE: Liquid or waterborne waste.
SEWER SYSTEM: The facilities owned or used by the SVSD for collecting, transmitting, treating,
and disposing of sewage, whether located in or out of the city.
SLUDGE: The accumulated solid slurry separated from liquids such as water or wastewater
during processing, deposits on bottoms of streams or other bodies of water, or the precipitate
resulting from chemical treatment, coagulation, or sedimentation of waste or wastewater.
SUBSTANCE: Any physical matter, including any solid, liquid or gas whatsoever.
SURFACE WATER: Any water running, standing or found on or within five inches (5") of the
surface of the ground.
TSSD: The Timpanogos special service district.
TREATMENT: The processes employed by the SVSD whereby sewage is rendered less harmful,
objectionable, or less of a health hazard.
TREATMENT PLANT: The JBWRF, SVWRF, or TSSD water reclamation facility. (Ord. 1167, 11-10-
2015)

7-2-030: REGULATING AUTHORITY:
Nothing in this chapter is intended to restrict or limit the extent or exercise of any power
conferred on the SVSD by the laws of Utah. In delegating certain regulatory authority to the
SVSD, the city does not affect any authority the SVSD may have independent of the city to
regulate the same or similar matters except as may be agreed by the city and the SVSD in a
written interlocal cooperation agreement. (Ord. 1167, 11-10-2015)

7-2-040: CONNECTIONS; PRIVATE SYSTEMS:
  A. Mandatory Connection Within Three Hundred Feet: The owner or occupant of real
property on which a building has been or is being constructed shall connect such building to
the sewer system within sixty (60) days after receiving written notice from the SVSD or city
that facilities of the sewer system are available for connection to the building, if any part of
such facilities is situated within three hundred feet (300') of any point of any property line of
such property.
  B. Subsequent Use Of Private Systems: If connection to the sewer system is required
pursuant to subsection A of this section, the owner or occupant required to connect shall
immediately plug any septic tank or privy vault, remove any outhouse, fill with earth any
cesspool located on the property, and make no further use of those or any other privately
owned facilities for final sewage disposal. Any cesspool, outhouse, or unplugged septic tank or
privy vault on property required to be connected to the sewer system is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance.
  C. Construction Of Private System: No person shall construct or cause to be constructed a
septic tank or other privately owned means of final sewage disposal on property required to
be connected to the sewer system.
  D. Occupancy: No occupancy permit shall be issued for a newly constructed building
required to be connected to the sewer system if such building is not connected to the sewer
system.
  E. No Obligation On SVSD Or City To Connect Or Retain: Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as creating any obligation of the part of the SVSD or the city to connect any
property to the sewer system or retain any connection to the sewer system.
  F. Conditions: The SVSD may impose reasonable conditions and requirements for sewer
connections without affecting the obligation of a private person to either connect to the sewer
system, discontinue use of a private system or otherwise comply with this section. (Ord. 1167,
11-10-2015)

7-2-050: SUBDIVISIONS AND OTHER DEVELOPMENTS:
No subdivision, industrial park, or commercial development shall be approved or
recommended by the city planning commission, nor shall a building permit or certificate of
occupancy be issued for any lot or part thereof, unless the city shall have first received a
signed document from the SVSD approving the sewer aspects of the proposed development.
(Ord. 1167, 11-10-2015)

7-2-060: PRETREATMENT AND PERMITS:
  A. Pretreatment: Persons required to pretreat wastewater pursuant to federal
pretreatment standards, the SVSD's pretreatment rules and regulations, or any permits issued
thereunder shall provide, operate, and maintain the necessary pretreatment facilities in
accordance with the SVSD's pretreatment rules and regulations.
  B. Industrial Discharge Permits: Industrial users requiring a discharge permit pursuant to the
SVSD's pretreatment rules and regulations shall obtain such permit prior to discharging into
the sewer system. Application shall be in the form prescribed by the SVSD. (Ord. 1167, 11-10-
2015)

7-2-070: INTERFERENCE WITH SEWER SYSTEM AND OPERATIONS:
  A. Damage: No person shall intentionally or negligently cause any damage to the sewer
system.
  B. Manholes: No person shall open a manhole of the sewer system without first receiving
authorization to do so from the SVSD.
  C. Runoff: No owner or occupant shall permit a condition to exist on his property whereby
surface water, storm drainage, or groundwater is discharged into the sewer system, nor shall
any person install or create such a condition. (Ord. 1167, 11-10-2015)

7-2-080: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
  A. Generally: No person shall discharge into the sewer system any substance which, under
ordinary circumstances, either is harmful or detrimental to or interferes with either the sewer
system, the functioning of the sewer system, the environment, or the public health, or which
causes sewage to pass through the sewer system without treatment, thereby creating a
significant health hazard or diminishing the quality of the environment.
  B. Violating Pretreatment Rules And Regulations: No person shall discharge into the sewer
system any substance which violates the wastewater discharge prohibitions and limitations
contained within chapter 2, section 2.2 of the SVSD's pretreatment rules and regulations, as
amended, which are incorporated by this reference as a part hereof as though fully set forth
herein, together with any schedules or appendices which are a part of chapter 2, section 2.2 of
the SVSD's pretreatment rules and regulations.
  C. Discharge Of Prohibited Substances: No person shall discharge into the sewer system any
substance prohibited in section 7-2-130, appendix A of this chapter. Section 7-2-130, appendix
A of this chapter is hereby adopted as part of this code. The SVSD may amend or modify
section 7-2-130, appendix A of this chapter to the extent necessary to safeguard from
substantial detriment to the sewer system, the environment, and the health, safety and
welfare of the residents of the city. This delegation is revocable and does not prevent further
legislation in this respect by the city; however, such legislation by the city shall not be deemed
a revocation of this delegation unless the intent to revoke is clearly expressed in written form
and approved by the city council. In the event of any inconsistency between enactments of the
city and enactments of the SVSD, the enactments of the city shall control. Should an
amendment to section 7-2-130, appendix A of this chapter by the SVSD be held invalid for any
reason, the text of section 7-2-130, appendix A of this chapter as most recently adopted or
amended by the city shall not be repealed or affected by the attempted amendment of the
SVSD. Discharge of a substance prohibited by one section of section 7-2-130, appendix A of
this chapter shall be a separate violation in addition to discharge of the same or similar
substance prohibited by another section of section 7-2-130, appendix A of this chapter.
  DC. Discharge Of Substances In Excess Of TSSD Local Limits: No person shall discharge into
the sewer system in service area 3 any substance listed in section 7-2-130, appendix BC of this
chapter in excess of the quantities or concentrations listed therein. Section 7-2-130, appendix
BC of this chapter is hereby adopted as part of this code. Discharge of a substance prohibited
by one section of section 7-2-130, appendix BC of this chapter shall be a separate violation in
addition to discharge of the same or similar substance prohibited by another section of section
7-2-130, appendix BC of this chapter. (Ord. 1167, 11-10-2015)

7-2-090: REPORTING:
  A. Immediate Notification Of Prohibited Discharge: Any person who discharges a prohibited
substance or discovers that a prohibited substance has been discharged shall immediately
notify the SVSD by the most rapid available means, if such person knows or reasonably should
have known that the substance was discharged and the discharge of the substance was
prohibited. Notification pursuant to this subsection does not relieve the person notifying of
any liability, except liability for violation of this subsection.
  B. Report: Within five (5) days after the discharge of a prohibited substance, the person
who discharged such substance shall file with the SVSD a written report describing the nature
and content of the discharge, the cause of the discharge, and remedial measures to be taken
by the discharger to prevent similar discharges in the future. The SVSD may inspect the site of
the discharge and interview any person involved to ascertain or confirm what happened and
assure that remedial measures adequate to prevent future accidents are carried out as
represented. (Ord. 1167, 11-10-2015)

7-2-100: PREVENTION OF PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
  A. Generally: Every person conducting an activity which creates a substantial risk that a
prohibited substance will be discharged into the sewer system shall provide adequate
protection against accidental discharge of such a prohibited substance by either implementing
procedures or practices which tend to reduce the likelihood of such a discharge or installing
facilities designed to prevent such accidental discharge. The SVSD may identify persons
required to provide such protection and direct them to comply with this subsection.
   B. Particular Procedures And Facilities: The SVSD may specify particular procedures,
practices, and facilities which shall be implemented by any person if the SVSD finds there is
substantial risk of a prohibited discharge if preventive measures are not undertaken, that such
procedures, practices and facilities substantially reduce the risk of discharge prohibited by this
section, and that the cost of implementing such procedures, practices, and installing such
facilities is reasonable in light of both the potential damage to the sewer system or the
environment if an accidental discharge occurs and the effectiveness of the equipment in
preventing such an accidental discharge.
   C. Plans: In every case where facilities are required to be installed pursuant to this section,
the SVSD may require submission of detailed plans for the required facilities and their
operation before construction of the facilities is begun.
  D. SVSD May Require Changes: If a person has discharged a prohibited substance and it is
likely that the same person will again discharge a similar prohibited substance if preventive
measures are not undertaken, the SVSD may require the person who discharged the
prohibited substance to make changes in equipment, facilities, procedures, or practices, which
changes have the effect of substantially reducing the risk of a similar discharge in the future
and are found by the SVSD to be reasonable in cost in light of the potential damage to the
system and environment arising out of a similar prohibited discharge in the future. Nothing in
this subsection relieves any person of any liability, except liability for violation of this
subsection.
   E. Self-Monitoring And Reporting: The SVSD may require that persons that generate and/or
discharge wastewater into the sewer system, other than persons generating and discharging
only ordinary domestic sewage, monitor and report their sewage discharges in a manner and
to the extent necessary to provide adequate compliance with and enforcement of the SVSD's
pretreatment rules and regulations, assess the source of the components of the sewage
transmitted, treated, and disposed of by the SVSD, and charge reasonable fees and surcharges
to dischargers based on actual damages or reasonable classifications of discharges. The SVSD
may also require that such monitoring and reporting be performed at the expense of the
person discharging. Every person required to monitor and report shall do so as required by the
SVSD's pretreatment rules and regulations and in conformity with this section.
   F. Compliance Monitoring: The SVSD may sample and analyze the sewage of, and inspect
the facilities of person discharging into the sewer system to determine or verify compliance
with this section. The SVSD may also require the installation of reasonable facilities, such as
manholes, to enable such sampling. However, nothing in this subsection limits any power that
the SVSD may have to investigate or enforce compliance with other sections of this code or
through means not specified in this subsection. (Ord. 1167, 11-10-2015)

7-2-110: EFFECT OF AMENDMENT:
Any amendment or repeal effected by adoption of this chapter or any section thereof shall not
affect any right which has accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or
proceeding commenced under or by virtue of the section amended or repealed, nor shall any
repeal of any section have the effect of reviving any section heretofore repealed or
superseded. (Ord. 1167, 11-10-2015)

7-2-120: PENALTIES:
  A. Criminal Penalties:
    1. Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated title 19, chapter 5, as amended, and the SVSD's
pretreatment rules and regulations, a fine not exceeding twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) per day shall be assessed against any person who wilfully or with gross
negligence:
      a. Discharges pollutants in violation of any condition or limitation included in a
wastewater discharge permit or contract issued pursuant to any applicable law;
      b. Discharges pollutants in violation of Utah Code Annotated section 19-5-107(1), as
amended;
      c. Violates Utah Code Annotated section 19-5-108, as amended, or any requirements
adopted pursuant thereto;
      d. Violates Utah Code Annotated section 19-5-113, as amended; or
      e. Violates a pretreatment standard or toxic effluent standard adopted by the SVSD or
city.
    2. Any person twice convicted under this section or Utah Code Annotated section 19-5-
115(2)(b), as amended, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) per day.
    3. Any person who knowingly makes a false statement, representation, or certification in
any application, record, report, plan or other document filed or required to be maintained
under Utah Code Annotated title 19, chapter 5, or by any permit, rule, or order issued
pursuant thereto, including, but not limited to, any rule, regulation, order or permit adopted
or issued by the SVSD, who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required to be maintained under Utah Code Annotated title 19,
chapter 5, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or by
imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, or by both.
    4. In addition to all other penalties, a violation of any provision of this chapter other than
subsections A1, A2 and A3 of this section, constitutes a class B misdemeanor carrying with it
the maximum punishment permitted under the laws of Utah. Each day in which the violation
continues shall be a separate offense.
  B. Civil Penalties:
    1. Any person who violates Utah Code Annotated title 19, chapter 5, as amended, or any
permit, rule, or order adopted under it, or any person who violates the pretreatment rules and
regulations adopted by the SVSD, upon a showing that the violation occurred, is subject in a
civil proceeding to a civil penalty not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per day of
violation.
    2. In addition to all other remedies available, the SVSD may authorize the commencement
of a civil action for any appropriate relief, including a permanent or temporary injunction, for
any violation or threatened violation of its pretreatment rules and regulations or any of the
provisions contained within Utah Code Annotated title 19, chapter 5, as amended, which are
by this reference deemed implemented as a part hereof by the city pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated section 19-5-115(7), 1953, as amended.
  C. Strict Liability: Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
without regard to fault, knowledge, intent, or the state of mind of the person committing the
violation.
  D. Nuisance: Any condition or situation which causes a violation of this chapter is hereby
declared to be public nuisance and may be abated as provided by law. (Ord. 1167, 11-10-2015)

7-2-130: APPENDICES:

APPENDIX A
PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES
  A. Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW, including, but not limited
to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than one hundred forty degrees
Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C), using the test method specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
  B. Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW, but in no case
discharges with a pH lower than 5.0 or greater than 11.0.
  C. Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts that cause obstruction of the flow in the POTW
resulting in interference.
  D. Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, TSS, etc.), released in a
discharge at a flow rate and/or concentration which may cause interference with the POTW.
  E. Wastewater having a temperature greater than sixty degrees Celsius (60oC) (140°F),
which inhibits biological activity in the sewage treatment facility resulting in interference but
in no case in such quantities that cause the temperature at the treatment facility's headworks
to exceed forty degrees Celsius (40°C) (104°F).
  F. Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral oil origin, in amounts
that cause interference or pass- through.
  G. Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral oil origin exceeding
one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l).
  H. Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or fumes within the POTW
in quantities that may cause acute worker health and/or safety problems.
  I. Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized, noncontact cooling water, and
unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically authorized by the SVSD.
  J. Pollutants in violation of the national categorical treatment standards established by EPA
in 40 CFR chapter 1, subchapter N, parts 405-471.
  K. Wastewater exceeding local limits or other prohibitions established and/or enforced by
the SVSD as described in its wastewater pretreatment program, section 4.
APPENDIX AB
SVSD SERVICE AREA 3




APPENDIX BC
TIMPANOGOS SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT LOCAL LIMITS
(Effective February 5, 2015)

Pollutant/Pollutant Property Local Limit Type Of Limit
Aluminum
809.87
Daily limit
Arsenic
1.40
30 day average
Cadmium
1.00
Daily limit
Copper
6.76
Daily limit
Cyanide
35.49
Daily limit
Grease/oil (fats, oil, grease)
500
Daily limit
Lead
7.22
30 day average
Mercury
0.31
30 day average
Molybdenum
5.30
30 day average
Nickel
24.92
Daily limit
pH
5.0 - 11.5
Daily limit
Selenium
2.57
Daily limit
Silver
5.41
Daily limit
Total chromium
3.56
Daily limit
Zinc
33.33
30 day average
Ammonia
Mass limit at 5 percent treatment capacity lbs/day
BOD
Mass limit at 5 percent treatment capacity lbs/day
TSS
Mass limit at 5 percent treatment capacity lbs/day

Units in mg/l unless otherwise stated.
(Ord. 1167, 11-10-2015)
