Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: November 9, 2021
Re: Crosspoint CSD Zoning Text and Map Amendments Comments: This application is a request for approval of a zoning text and zoning map amendment for approximately 17.26 acres located at approximately 166 E. Highland Drive.  The property is currently zoned CR.  The applicant is requesting to rezone the property to create a new commercial district called the Crosspoint Commercial Special District (CSD-CP).  The proposed CSD-CP zone will be located in Chapter 9-18 (Commercial Special Districts) in the DCMC.
The subject property is vacant and has never been developed.  The site has been zoned as CR since at least 2001.  The Planning Commission previously considering this application at their December 17, 2020 meeting.  At that meeting, the request was unanimously continued to a date uncertain so the applicant could make changes to the proposed CSD text.
The Planning Commission forwarded a positive recommendation with several changes made to the text of the CSD at their October 14, 2021 meeting.  That motion was unanimous.  The recommended modification of the Planning Commission included:
1.  Remove language for high efficiency glass.
2.  Setbacks are to be 20 feet from all streets.
3.  Parking spaces shall be a minimum of 18 feet deep.
4.  All lighting shall conform to the standards of the DCMC.
5.  One monument sign if allowed per office or medical building and informational signage is allowed.
6.  All retaining walls meet the standards of the DCMC.
7.  Cross access with site to the south be a minimum of 26 feet wide.
8.  Maximum height is limited to 45 feet with a 10 foot mechanical screening wall.
Based on the recommendation of the Planning Commission, the applicant has provided updated language for the CSD incorporating some of the recommendations of the Planning Commission.  Staff and the applicant will discuss those changes at the public hearing.  A copy of the applicant's updated text has been included with this report. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.  Map Amendments:
a.  The amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
b.  The amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
c.  The amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
d.  The proposed amendment may not adversely affect adjacent property; and
e.  Adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection are in place.
2.  Text Amendments:
a.  The amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
b.  The amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
c.  The amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
d.  The amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
e.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
f.  The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For denial:
1.  Map Amendments:
a.  The amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
b.  The amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
c.  The amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
d.  The proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent property; and
e.  Adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection may not be in place.
2.  Text Amendments:
a.  The amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
b.  The amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
c.  The amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
d.  The amendment may create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
e.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined may be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
f.  The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance 1506 (Zoning Text Amendment Applicant's Proposal) 11/2/2021 Ordinance Ordinance 1505 (Zoning Map Amendment) 11/1/2021 Ordinance Applicant's Updated CSD Language 11/1/2021 Backup Material PC Staff Report 11/1/2021 Backup Material Public Comment emails 11/5/2021 Cover Memo