MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2021,
IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:     Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha Lowery, Fred
Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey

EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:        David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Scott Cooley,
City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore, Human Resource Director; John Eining, Police Chief; Bret
Millburn, Assistant City Manager; Rhett Ogden, Recreation Director; Laura Oscarson, City
Recorder; Linda Peterson, Communications Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Bob Wylie,
Finance Director; Jake Sorensen, IT; Kellie Challburg, Chief of Staff; Spencer DuShane,
Attorney; Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager; and Maryann Pickering, Planner;

______________________________________________________________________________________________

Study Session

1.0    Council/Manager Reports

1.1    Councilmember F. Lowry spoke about the Ballard Arena. He suggested that they
       construct a pavilion to improve the area, and he noted that Wadsworth
       Construction Company had some extra materials on hand and could assist them if
       the Council wanted to go that route. He asked the Council if that was something
       they would be interested in exploring. He also stated that he wanted direction from
       the Council as to what work they wanted the Special Events Advisory Committee to
       do, and what the Council wanted the extent of their role to be. Councilmember
       Vawdrey thought that the Special Events Advisory Committee‘s authority should be
       mitigated to only the Ballard Arena and not all events throughout the town.
       Councilmember Green agreed that the committee should focus only on the Ballard
       Arena. Councilmember T. Lowery stated that she liked the idea of the pavilion, and
       thought that it would bring in more residents. She thought that they needed to
       build it up a bit more, and have chairs and tables on hand for the events.
       Councilmember F. Lowry expanded more on the plans for the Ballard Arena and
       gave an overview of upcoming events, including a Renaissance festival. He voiced
       his opinion that David Wilks be involved if the Council decided to incorporate food
       trucks at the venue.

1.2    Councilmember F. Lowry also spoke about the tree beautification project that would
       be taking place around City Hall and said that the Tree Committee would be
       replacing trees in the area.




Draper City Council DRAFT Meeting Minutes November 9, 2021
1.3   Councilmember Roberts spoke about a resident in North Draper, who had inquired
      about some unmaintained trees. There was a question as to if the HOA or the City
      was responsible for tree maintenance, and there was a quick discussion about the
      issue that did not yield a definitive answer.

1.4   Councilmember Roberts also reported that a gentleman had been hit and killed
      while walking in the City, and the Traffic Committee was investigating ways to avoid
      accidents like that in the future. The Traffic Committee would install flashing lights
      to signal for pedestrians.

1.5   Councilmember Vawdrey also spoke about the need for tables and chairs at the
      special events arena.

1.6   Councilmember Green discussed some of the details of the hit and run incident that
      had taken place.

1.7   Councilmember T. Lowery thought they should conduct a survey, now that the
      election had been completed, to get some feedback about how residents felt about
      the election process. They discussed some details of how the survey would be
      conducted.

1.8   Mayor Walker discussed that Public Works Director Scott Cooley had reported that
      the City now made $15 per ton for recycling, whereas before they had lost some
      amount of money per ton. He said that the reasons for that were not entirely clear.

1.9   Mayor Walker stated that they could discuss 700 West in the future, and the current
      status of the project was that it was on hold. The project was added as a future
      agenda item. The Council would need to determine what the funding sources for
      the project were before they could proceed.



Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

2.1   Ira Popper from the Adventure Church offered the prayer. Jake Sorensen from the
      IT department led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0   Public Comments

      Mayor Walker explained that there would be a separate opportunity to make public
      comments about a specific item at the time when the item was discussed by the
      Council, and he reminded the audience that they would have three minutes to make

                                                                                               2
      their general public comments. He added that no clapping, cheering, or signs were
      permitted, to maintain impartiality. He was glad to see so many people in
      attendance that evening.

      There were no general public comments.

4.0   Consent Items

      a.     Approval of Resolution #21-55, a resolution reappointing Jordan Putnam as a
             member of the Draper Historic Preservation Commission.

      b.     Approval of Resolution #21-58, a resolution appointing David Hales as a
             member of the Draper Historic Preservation Commission.

      c.     Approval of Resolution #21-59, a resolution of the Draper City Council
             approving the bylaws of the Metro Fire Agency.

4.1   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve the Consent Items. Councilmember
      Green seconded the motion.

4.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

5.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1505 and #1506, a request by Ralph Johnson of Utah
      Capital LLC to create a new commercial special district and rezone the subject
      property as the Crosspoint Commercial Special District. The proposed district
      standards will be located in Chapter 9-18 of the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
      and the new zoning designation would be Crosspoint Commercial Special District
      (CSD-CP). The property is located at approximately 166 E. Highland Drive in the
      Regional Commercial (CR) zoning district. This application is known as Crosspoint
      CSD Zoning Map and Text Amendments (Legislative Action).



5.1   Mayor Walker explained that the Staff would present first, followed by the applicant.
      After the discussion, there would be a public hearing, and then the Council may or
      may not decide on an Action Item.

      Mayor Walker made some general comments about the City’s recycling program
      while the presentation was set up, and commented that the City now made $15 per
      ton of recycling material. He imagined it was due to residents being diligent about
      separating their recycling materials correctly.

5.2   Planner Maryann Pickering explained this was a request to create a new commercial
      special district. She stated that the land use designation was currently community
      commercial. She said that the Planning Commission had recommended approval in

                                                                                          3
      October, with eight suggested changes, and that the applicant had so far conformed
      to items one, three, and four. She said that the applicants could write their
      standards or development codes in a commercial special district or CSD, and she
      gave some highlights of the standards that the applicant had proposed. She noted
      that the access for the development was along 65 East. She also stated that a traffic
      study had been conducted, and they had determined that a traffic signal would
      need to be put in at 65 East, at the applicant’s cost. She explained that the CSD had
      very similar uses to other commercial districts in the City, and the primary use of the
      land would be office spaces with retail spaces in the corner of the property. She
      also went over the standards for parking and access, which were overall very similar
      to what was in the City Code. She shared photographs of the concept plan as well
      as the proposed buildings and highlighted some of the main features of the site.

5.3   Councilmember T. Lowery inquired if the ten-foot screens at the top of the buildings
      were standard, and Ms. Pickering confirmed that they were, and that would make
      the buildings 70 feet overall, although they were currently zoned to have buildings
      up to 40 feet tall.

5.4   Councilmember F. Lowry asked for further clarification about the access, and Ms.
      Pickering indicated on the map how access would work in the development.

5.5   Ms. Pickering said that setbacks had been an issue in the Planning Commission
      meeting, and she explained that while there were no setbacks, there was a ten-foot
      landscape perimeter around the entire development, and a 20 food perimeter in
      areas where it backed up to a residential area. She also said that the parking was
      very specific for the uses of the development. She stated that there was another
      difference between the applicant’s plan and the City Code regarding signage, and
      she said that the applicant had requested 600 square feet of signage per building,
      which was different than what was outlined in the Code.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked for clarity about what uses would be designated for
      the special district, and if there was any variance from what was currently zoned in
      that area. Ms. Pickering replied that all of the proposed uses were currently allowed
      in the zone. She noted that one business that was currently labeled as a “medical
      cannabis facility” would have to change its name to “medical cannabis pharmacy” to
      adhere to State law. Councilmember F. Lowry asked if that business could be
      omitted from the development, and City Attorney Mike Barker explained that
      medical cannabis pharmacies were considered to be legal, and so could not be
      banned from the district.




                                                                                           4
5.6   Councilmember T. Lowery asked for an explanation of the retaining walls, and Ms.
      Pickering explained that the City Code had recently updated their standards on
      retaining walls to make them more visually appealing, and they wanted to ensure
      that the applicant was in keeping with those design standards.

5.7   Councilmember Roberts inquired about what the benefits to traffic mitigation would
      be by having cross access. Public Works Director Scott Cooley explained that the
      development provided access to Highland, which would be better for both traffic
      circulation as well as public safety. Fire Marshal Don Buckley said that the cross
      access was beneficial for emergency access, as it was wide enough to allow for fire
      department vehicles to get in and out of the development.

5.8   The applicant Ralph Johnson went over the history of the development briefly and
      said that a plan had originally been proposed in 1996 that would include office,
      retail, and medical research space, as well as some residential units. He stated that
      the land parcels were still primed for the same type of buildings. He shared his site
      plan and indicated some of the main buildings of the site. He shared that medical
      services, including emergency services, would be a part of the design.

      Mr. Johnson addressed some misunderstandings about the development, namely
      the rumor that the buildings would be placed directly next to the residential area
      nearby, which he said was untrue. He indicated on the map how the buildings
      would be spaced away from the homes, and that there would be a landscaping
      buffer between the residences and the commercial buildings. He also discussed
      building heights, and said that as all their buildings were the same height and were
      contiguous to each other, he felt it would be just and fair to allow the height that
      they had proposed in their plan. He added that lighting would be dimmed at night,
      and there would be no signage on the sides of the building that faced the
      residences. He also clarified that there was no helicopter pad as part of the design,
      and he was unsure as to how that rumor had originated. He further showed some
      photographs which illustrated that due to a change in topography, the buildings
      appeared shorter than they actually were when viewed from the residential area.
      He showed some aerial photographs which gave a better sense of the layout of the
      proposed site. He also went over the trees which would be planted to provide a
      buffer between the commercial spaces and the residential area. He discussed the
      access from Seasons apartment, and said that the access was of no advantage to
      their development, but they had included it in their plan as a courtesy to the
      residents of the apartment building.

5.9   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.




                                                                                              5
5.10   Winston Smith was confused and upset about the helipad issue, as he recalled that
       it had been distinctly stated in the last meeting that there would be a helipad. He
       wondered if that had been to distract from the issue with the building height. He
       did not appreciate the confusion in regard to the helipad. He recalled that the
       applicant had discussed in the last meeting about the need to have buildings at a
       certain height, and he stated that he was opposed to the proposed heights.

5.11   Mary O’Donnell stated that she had lived at Chandler Point for 17 years, and she
       had moved there specifically for the view. While she knew that eventually there
       would be more development in the area, she was concerned with the proposed
       height of the buildings. She thought the Committee should keep to the height
       restrictions that were dictated by the Code. She added that there were also several
       notices about the helipad, since there was a lot of wind in the area. She was also
       concerned about the possible increase in traffic, and she thought a traffic light
       would have to be installed on 65 East.

5.12   John Pain stated that he owned seven properties in Chandler Point, and said that
       when he had bought into the area he had paid close attention to which houses had
       the best view. He explained that he made money by renting out homes, and he
       made more revenue from the homes with good views. He argued that if the
       development had tall buildings, it would decrease the property values of the
       surrounding homes, and would decrease his rental income. He then showed some
       photographs which illustrated that the proposed buildings in the development
       would in fact mitigate the views from the residences.

5.13   Ian Gillespie thought that tall buildings and loud machinery were not what the
       residents of Draper City wanted. He had put together a petition that was against
       the proposed helipad and against the building height exemption, and he reported
       that the petition had over 1,000 signatures so far. He read aloud some of the
       comments that residents had added when they signed the petition, and the
       comments were all opposed to the proposed development.

5.14   Jocelyn Araya said that she was excited for the development, and wanted to be a
       good neighbor to the development. She said that specifically, she looked forward to
       the plans for the micro-hospital and the medical services. She thought it made
       sense that a hospital would require a helipad. She thought that Chandler Point
       would still have amazing views, and shared some photographs of the view from her
       home. She noted that if the buildings in the development were too tall, it decreased
       the overall value of her home as it would detract from that view, and she
       commented that she paid higher taxes for living on the ridge. She asked the
       developer to keep their building heights within the City Code.


                                                                                             6
5.15   David Barth commented that there were many empty buildings already in the area,
       and asked if it was truly necessary to add more office buildings. He thought that
       that there was not a height need for more office space, as many companies had
       recently moved to a work from home model in light of COVID-19. He was in favor of
       more restaurant spaces, however. He also voiced concerns about noise coming
       from the hospital. He was also concerned about the amount of retail space as well
       as the amount of signage that was proposed to go in the area. He was not opposed
       to the development, but cautioned that it needed to be done in the right way.

5.16   Ann Marie Barrett thought that they had a wonderful community. She echoed many
       of the sentiments of earlier comments, namely that she was opposed to the taller
       buildings. She thought the buildings would decrease property values, and increase
       traffic and the risk of car accidents. She was concerned about the safety aspect of
       increased traffic.

5.17   Kevin Berry was a hang glider pilot and private pilot, and he had noticed that the air
       quality had decreased in the last four to five years due to the increase in
       construction and development. He said Draper was once a world-class flying
       destination, and warned that that would change if they continued to develop at their
       current rate. He also indicated that there was substantial air pollution and risk from
       a helicopter, and cautioned against a helipad. He thought the FAA would not allow a
       helipad to be placed so close to a flight park.

5.18   Lindsay Heublein spoke about the proposed townhomes that would be put in as
       part of the development, and thought that the homes would lead to an increase in
       traffic. She discussed the access points for her neighborhood, and said that there
       would be a safety risk if more cars came to the area. She thought that there was too
       much development in their area, and hoped that the development could be
       reconfigured. She thought it would be better to install a splashpad or park instead
       of more townhomes.

5.19   Chris Hunlow voiced his opinion that this was a chance for City Council to set a
       precedent for all developers. He was not opposed to the development, but he
       thought it was important for the City Council to listen to the residents. He thought
       this was a special part of Draper, and the quiet and views needed to be protected.
       He felt that they needed to do what was best for Draper, and he did not want
       developers to think of profit before they thought of the quality of life of the
       residents.

5.20   Jennifer Kennedy had concerns about the proposed height of the buildings. She
       was a recent homeowner, and had chosen the area in part due to the view. She did
       not want the value of her home to decrease as a result of the building heights, and

                                                                                              7
       was curious as to the reasoning behind the desire for taller buildings. She pointed
       out that many people no longer worked out of an office, and mentioned that there
       were plenty of open office space available for rent in town already.

5.21   Samuel Wilkinson discussed that Chandler Point Way had been required for
       emergency shared cross-access as a prerequisite for approval of the apartment
       building that had been developed nearby the planned development. He felt that
       there was some confusion about the access points in the proposed developments.
       He did not think that the applicant’s plans for the site should have precedence over
       the zone overlay.

5.22   Tiffany Wilkinson read a quote from the Fifth Amendment about the American
       Founding Father’s beliefs about the inherent right to public property. She felt that
       the applicant was asking for his right to private property to be fairly looked at, and
       he was trying to work to get what he wanted within the parameters of the City Code
       and what was desired by the residents. She felt that since it was private property,
       the applicant had a right to develop as he wanted, and asked that the residents
       considered the applicant’s perspective.

5.23   Ken Jorgensen discussed that helicopters essentially caused giant downdrafts, and
       caused a risk to hang-gliding and small planes. He warned against the installation of
       a helipad, as it would pose a risk to hang-gliders and pilots in the area.

5.24   Beth Park addressed that the developer’s site claimed that the medical services in
       the development would be a trauma center, and a trauma center was legally
       required to have a helipad. She said that all level three trauma centers in Utah did
       have helipads, and she was concerned that the developer would get the approval to
       build a trauma center, and then would later install the helipad. She noted that it
       was imperative to have medical care within the first hour after a traumatic incident,
       and that trauma triage protocol stated that a patient had to be transported to the
       nearest appropriate hospital for care. She discussed that there were several nearby
       hospitals that could provide an appropriate level of care for trauma patients.

5.25   Avanleigh Hooper did not want a hospital to be added to Draper because the noise
       would keep her up at night, and the tall building would block her view from her
       house.



5.26   Tiffany Bloomquist had seen a lot of change in the 15 years she had lived in Draper,
       and felt that there had been an untoward amount of development in the time she
       had lived in Draper. She was not opposed to a medical facility, but did not want a
       trauma center to be right by her home. She asked for clarity about what the exact

                                                                                              8
       purpose of the building would be. She spoke about the increase in traffic that she
       had seen in the last couple of years, and warned that the traffic would be a
       nightmare if the development went forward.

5.27   Ferris Taylor was concerned about why the zone would be changed on behalf of the
       developer. He also discussed concerns about the traffic, and he did not think that
       there was a need to add another traffic light. He voiced a concern that there would
       be only one access point for the development, and said that the developer needed
       to accommodate traffic concerns. He said that the developer needed to do the right
       thing, and cautioned that they should not change the zone or the zoning laws.

5.28   Stacy Harker was concerned about more traffic coming into the City. She thought
       that a micro hospital would bring in a different kind of constituency to the City. She
       noted that Samuel and Tiffany Wilkinson worked with the developer, and they had
       another home that would not be impacted by the development. She also voiced
       concerns about the increase in traffic, as well as the potential environmental impact
       of the development.

5.29   Tarquin Hooper said that he bought his home knowing that it was zoned in a certain
       way, and he did not think it was the right thing to purchase land and then request
       that it be rezoned. He felt that it was not proper for all the rezone requests, and
       also noted that there was not a large need for office buildings, as so many people
       now worked from home.

5.30   Carey Brown asked the City Council about the process for the application to change
       a zoning amendment, and noted that there were some items that had been
       discussed in the previous meeting that had not been discussed that evening. She
       was concerned that those items would reappear at a later date.

5.31   Chris Santa Croce had a nonprofit that took disabled people hang-gliding, and he
       wanted to preserve his nonprofit. He commented that the tall buildings posed a risk
       for hang-gliders.

5.32   Robert McFarlane owned several properties in Draper, and he felt that it was unfair
       to his properties if the Council allowed a newcomer to the area to change the rules.
       He said that the Planning Commission’s recommendation had been to keep the
       building height to 40 feet, and he thought that should be taken into consideration.

5.33   Becca Jean Teller commented that values changed over time, and the values of
       Draper in 1997 were different than what they were currently. She said that if the
       development passed, it would encourage other developers to propose even taller
       buildings in the future.



                                                                                            9
5.34   Jeff Butler was a pilot, and said that the aviation industry brought a lot of revenue to
       Draper City. He thought it was important that the City Council consider the safety of
       pilots. He noticed that as flying became a more popular sport, it contributed to the
       economic growth of Draper, and that the helipad would detract from that growth
       substantially as it posed a danger to pilots.

5.35   Ashley Muhlestein asked if there were stipulations in the developer’s plan as to how
       many ambulances would be allowed, or how the patients would be transported to
       and from the hospital.

5.36   Justin Fisher stated that he had concerns about the traffic, building height, and the
       helicopter. He also stated that there was a shown mistrust for the developer, and
       there was a large difference between how the developer had portrayed his project
       to the public and to the Planning Commission. He felt that the developer was
       obfuscating facts of the development so that things appeared favorable to him.

5.37   Denae Bybee was surprised to hear that there would be a medical cannabis store in
       the development, and she voiced the opinion that she did not approve of the
       medical cannabis store.

5.38   Diane Cooper was concerned about the development, and its potential to destroy
       their lifestyle. She did not want the flight park to be jeopardized. She was also not
       in favor of the medical cannabis pharmacy, and did not want one close to her home.
       She also commented that the helipad had not been discussed in the last meeting
       until after the public comments had been closed, and she felt that had been unjust.

5.39   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

5.40   Ralph Johnson said that he had owned the property for 25 years, and said that at
       the time he had purchased the land there had been no zone. He clarified that he
       was not attempting to change the zone after the purchase, and said that he had
       worked closely with the developer who had developed Chandler Point. He recalled
       that at the time the apartments had been put in, many people had argued against
       their development, but now nobody had a problem with the apartments. He
       discussed that he felt it was strange how many people argued against more
       developments, but then enjoyed the amenities once they were in place. He also
       made some comments about how the topography and change in elevation would
       mitigate the impact of the buildings for the nearby residents. He stated that the
       development team would make a definitive decision about the hospital by the next
       meeting, and he reiterated that there would not be a helipad at the hospital site. He
       lastly noted that he had used Google images or his own camera for all the pictures
       that he had shown that evening, and stated that he was honest and had not


                                                                                            10
       manipulated the photographs in any way. He asked the residents to think about the
       needs of their community.

5.41   Councilmember F. Lowry asked for clarity about the helipad, and asked how the
       discussion had come about in the first place. Mr. Johnson replied that he was not
       sure, and claimed that he had not mentioned a helipad in the previous meeting. It
       was discussed that someone who would work at the hospital had suggested it
       would be a good idea. Ralph Johnson further stated that he was opposed to the
       medical cannabis pharmacy, and that while it was permitted by law he did not
       intend to build it.

5.42   Councilmember F. Lowry also asked for clarity about the two-way cross access.
       Ralph Johnson said that his team did not think it was important, but they wanted to
       maintain the width of 24 feet. He said that if the development was not approved,
       there would be no access there. Councilmember F. Lowry asked why the application
       stated 15 feet, and not 24. Ralph Johnson replied that it was changed to 24 feet in
       the amendment.

5.43   Councilmember Green asked why the existing use was not compatible, and said that
       he needed a substantial justification to change the zone. Ralph Johnson replied that
       he wanted to have a written understanding of what could be built in the area, and
       he wanted to change the zone for complete clarity of what kind of businesses could
       go there. There was a short further discussion, in which Councilmember Green
       expressed his desire for a rational reason that the zone had to be changed, and
       Ralph Johnson said that his main reason was to not have the type of development
       that was subject to conditions.

5.44   Councilmember T. Lowery said that they were not held to what had been voted on
       by previous Councils, and that they were not obligated to honor the requests or
       entitlements that had been given to the applicant by previous Councils. Ralph
       Johnson and Councilmember T.Lowery discussed that issue briefly, and
       Councilmember T. Lowery reiterated her opinion. She also contended that the
       applicant had not made or addressed the changes that had been suggested by the
       Planning Commission or City Staff, and Ralph Johnson replied that he was under the
       impression that the setbacks were not actually required. Councilmember T. Lowery
       stated that the setbacks were required, and reiterated Councilmember Green’s
       question as to why the applicant should be granted the rezone request. Ralph
       Johnson gave a rationale as to why it did not make sense for his development to
       have the recommended setbacks.




                                                                                        11
5.45   Councilmember Vawdrey asked if Ralph Johnson was willing to lower the building
       heights. Ralph Johnson replied that he felt it was impractical to lower the building
       heights.

5.46   Councilmember Roberts asked if there was any non-economic reasoning for not
       lowering the building heights, and Ralph Johnson replied that he felt it would best
       serve the community to have a four-story building, as it would attract larger tenants.
       Councilmember Green asked if the buildings could be lower, but not taller, and
       Ralph Johnson replied that he did not think that would be best for the layout of the
       development.

5.47   Councilmember F. Lowry asked Ralph Johnson for clarification that if the building
       height had to change, he would not be able to complete the project. Ralph Johnson
       confirmed that he would have to consider different types of projects.

5.48   Councilmember Roberts asked if the current zone precluded a helipad, and Ms.
       Jastremsky said that the Code did not address the zone specifically, and she said she
       would have to look into the issue further to see exactly what the approval process
       was to have a helipad installed in either the current zone or the proposed zone. City
       Manager David Dobbins noted that the existing code required cross access.

5.49   Councilmember Green moved to deny Ordinances #1505 and #1506.
       Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

5.50   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0    Public Hearing: Pye Plat Amendment Public Access Easement Modification, on the
       request of Jason Pye for a modification to the public access easement located at
       approximately 1842 East 12200 South. This application is known as the Pye Plat
       Amendment - Public Access Easement Modification and affects Lot 2 of the Elggren
       Subdivision. (Legislative Action)

6.1    Jennifer Jastremsky gave an overview of the lot and said it had an RA2 zoning
       designation. She stated that the lot did have several encumbrances, and indicated
       where the access points were on the lot. She explained that the applicant wanted to
       modify how the easement on the property was utilized and showed the proposed
       site plan. She shared an aerial map of the plat and highlighted some details of the
       easement. She noted that the applicant intended to maintain the 20-foot setback,
       and wanted an eight-foot pedestrian walkway to be added to the lot, as well as a
       space for emergency access. She shared some photographs of the existing
       easement. She asked the Council if they wanted to modify the easement, and said



                                                                                              12
      that the applicant also had a plat amendment, which would be taken before the
      Planning Commission.

6.2   Councilmember F. Lowry asked if the proposal had been shown to the Planning
      Commission, and Ms. Jastremsky said that it had not yet been shown, as they had to
      get approval from the Council first.

6.3   Councilmember T.Lowery asked to hear from the Fire Marshal and asked if the
      proposed changes to the lot would still provide adequate emergency access. Fire
      Marshal Don Buckley replied that he felt the changes would not provide sufficient
      access, and noted that the gate on the property was not up to their emergency
      access standards. He spoke about some other features of the lot that were not up
      to the Fire Code.

6.4   Councilmember F. Lowry asked if there were potential liability issues with allowing
      the road to be used as a driveway.

      Mr. Barker said there was a risk to pedestrians if they allowed the road to be used
      by both vehicles and pedestrians. He said that he was concerned about the mix
      from a risk management perspective.

6.5   Applicant Jason Pye introduced himself and said that he had been working with the
      Planning Commission on this issue for about a year. He indicated on the plat that
      1840 East was deemed as public use. He referenced the map of the plat and said
      that he intended to build a home that was in keeping with the standards of the
      neighborhood. He wanted to preserve public access, and include that in his plans
      for his home. He stated that he was willing to pour a five-foot walkway, however,
      that did not meet the current Code, and so they would need to tear up the current
      pathway and pour an eight-foot walkway on the south end of the easement, with a
      space delineated for safety before the driveaway. He noted that currently, the
      space was approved as dual-use for emergency and pedestrian use. He clarified
      that he would be willing to sign the driveway so that people were aware of its use,
      and it was not his intent to remove access for anyone. He also shared some site
      photographs of the easement. He read aloud some public comments that had been
      submitted to Ms. Jastremsky earlier that day, which were in favor of his proposed
      changes. He noted but did not read aloud, that three negative comments had been
      submitted regarding the gate being left open. He addressed some other negative
      comments which stated that there was no public benefit to the proposed changes,
      and he contended that there was a public benefit if he was permitted to make his
      proposed changes.




                                                                                            13
6.6    Councilmember F. Lowry asked if the plan was to access the lot from 1840 East, and
       Jason Pye replied that he had been granted access from 12200 South.

6.7    Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.

6.8    Chuck Wentlander was concerned that the proposed changes would eliminate one
       of the emergency easements for residents in the neighborhood. He spoke about
       safety concerns and said that the bolsters that were in place on the walkway had
       worked for 18 years, and he did not want them removed. He felt that the easement
       should be kept where it currently was, to mitigate the risk of accidents as well as to
       assist with snow removal in the winter.

6.9    John Esplin voiced concerns about increasing the traffic on 1840 East and felt that
       should be taken into consideration. He also thought allowing the driveway to be
       added would pose a risk to children and joggers. He said that 1840 East was a very
       narrow road, and in the case that a car stalled, there needed to be another access
       point to allow for emergency vehicles to pass.

6.10   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

6.11   Jason Pye stated that 1840 East was not a part of his request, and he intended to
       utilize 12200 South. He also said that there was a grass separator to delineate
       between the driveway and the pedestrian walkway, and he indicated that he was
       willing to increase the size of the grass strip. He voiced his willingness to take
       responsibility for snow removal as well.

6.12   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to deny the Pye Plat Amendment Public Access
       Easement Modification. Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

6.13   Councilmember Vawdrey did not see a compelling reason to modify the plat, and
       she thought public safety was too important to allow the change. Councilmember F.
       Lowry said that it was best from a liability standpoint to not vacate the easement.
       Councilmember Green did not want to go against the recommendation of the Fire
       Marshal. Councilmember T. Lowery expressed her sympathy to the applicant but
       was also worried about public safety, especially regarding children.

6.14   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.



7.0    Public Hearing: Ordinance #1507, a request by Nathan Abbott, representing
       Galloway & Co., Inc. for approval of a text amendment in the CSD-136C zone
       regarding text changes to Title 9-18L of the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
       development standards, parking design, lighting design, and sign sections. This

                                                                                            14
      application is known as the Kum & Go Store #2500 Text Amendment Request
      (Legislative Action).

7.1   Maryann Pickering shared the zoning map of the property, and she said that
      gasoline service stations were considered a permitted use, but the development
      standards were not clear. She outlined the specific changes that would be made to
      the text, which were regarding the height of the fuel canopies, lighting standards,
      and parking spaces. She said that the Planning Commission had recommended
      approval.

7.2   Councilmember F.Lowry asked if an additional sign would be added, and Jennifer
      Jastremsky explained that they would relocate a sign, but they would not add
      anything additional. She elaborated those two signs were allowed, and one would
      be on the I-15 highway, and one would go on Bangerter Highway.

7.3   Applicant Nate Abbott explained that his request was to clarify the text, and said he
      did not want to make any changes to the existing text. He said that the signs were
      two 35-foot tall pole signs, and his request was to place one sign on Bangerter
      Highway, rather than placing them both on I-15. He explained that the purpose was
      to attract eastbound traffic. City Manager David Dobbins noted that there was a
      Maverick gas station that had a pole sign with their brand and pricing displayed
      along Bangerter Highway.

7.4   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor Walker
      closed the public hearing.

7.5   Councilmember Vawdrey asked Ms. Pickering what were the height of the other
      pole signs along Bangerter Highway, and Ms. Pickering said that she was unsure of
      the specific height, but noted that the existing signs were similar to the ones that
      were requested by the applicant. Councilmember Roberts wanted to ensure that
      they stayed consistent with what was already in the area. City Manager David
      Dobbins said that if this change was approved, it was likely that other companies in
      the same zone would also request the same thing. Councilmember Vawdrey asked
      Ms. Pickering if all of the deviations from the existing Code could be highlighted, for
      the Council to better understand what was requested by the applicant.

7.6   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to continue Ordinance #1507 to the next meeting
      on November 16, 2021. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

7.7   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

8.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-60, a resolution stating the intent of Draper City to hold
      a public hearing on the request to adjust the common boundary line with Lehi City.

                                                                                           15
       This municipal boundary adjustment would relocate approximately 163 acres of
       land from Draper City into Lehi City. The properties are parcel numbers 110-150-007
       and 110-150-008 (Legislative Action).

8.1    City Manager David Dobbins explained that this would adjust the boundary between
       Draper and Lehi City, and indicated a map that showed the specific area that would
       be moved to Lehi City. He explained that the resolution that evening would indicate
       Draper’s intent to hold a public hearing about the issue in the future.

8.2    Councilmember Green moved to approve Resolution #21-60. Councilmember
       Vawdrey seconded the motion.

8.3    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

9.0    Recess to a Draper City Community Reinvestment Agency Meeting.

9.1    Councilmember Green moved to recess to a Community Reinvestment Agency
       Meeting. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

9.2    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

10.0   Adjournment

10.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember Vawdrey
       seconded the motion.

10.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

10.3   The meeting adjourned at 10:40 p.m.




                                                                                       16
