                               Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                        June 14, 2021

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: June 24, 2021

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     BNSN – Zoning Map Amendment Request
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-0085-2021
        Applicant:        Brian Newberry, representing BNSN Investments, LLC
        Project Location: 12775 S. 1600 E. (Costanza Way)
        Current Zoning: A5 (Agricultural, 5 acre minimum lot size) Zone
        Acreage:          1.48 Acres (Approximately 64,469 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment in the A5 zone
                          regarding changing the zoning designation for the property to the
                          RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft2 minimum lot size) zone.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
1.48 acres located on the east side of Costanza Way, at approximately 12775 S. 1600 E.
(Costanza Way) (Exhibit C). The property is currently zoned A5. The applicant is requesting
that a RA2 zone be approved to allow for future development of the property.

The property is currently developed with a single-family residence. The change in zoning
could potentially permit the division of the property into 3 lots, however the applicant has
not proposed any subdivision of the property at this time. The applicant’s future plans
include the construction of a larger single-family home on the property (Exhibit F).



ANALYSIS




BNSN                                                             App. # TEXTMAP-0085-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                  1
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Low/Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit D). This
category is characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the A5 zoning classification, supporting approximately one
(1) dwelling unit per five (5) acres (Exhibit E). According to Draper City Municipal Code
(DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the A5 zone is to “maintain the status of large tracts
of agricultural land by allowing most commercial agricultural uses. Typical uses include farming,
dairy, and cattle production.” The A5 zoning abuts the subject property to the north and the
south. RA2 zoning abuts the property to the east. The Porter Rockwell trail and UTA owned
Rail line abuts the property on the West and RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft2
minimum lot size) zoning is located west of the trail and the rail line.

Zoning Map Amendment. The applicant is proposing to change the zoning designation from
A5 to RA2. The RA2 zone allows for single-family detached units on lots 20,000 ft2 and



BNSN                                                                App. # TEXTMAP-0085-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                    2
greater. The current land use designation of Residential Low-Medium Density lists the RA2
zone as compatible zoning for the land use designation. Additionally, the subject property
is non-conforming as to the minimum lot size for the current A5 zone as are all other
similarly zoned properties in the immediate vicinity.

Staff notes that the applicant has submitted an abbreviated legal description that is used
primarily for tax purposes as part of the application (Exhibit B). This description will not
work for the purposes of describing the outer boundary of the area proposed to be
rezoned if the City Council were ultimately to approve the Zoning Map Amendment. The
updated and corrected legal description for the property will be required to be submitted
to staff and be reviewed for compliance prior to placement of the item on an agenda for a
decision by the City Council.

Criteria For Approval. A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion
of the City Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a
recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the
following factors in Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
               of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
               existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
               including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
               fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
               wastewater and refuse collection.

REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Map Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning



BNSN                                                                 App. # TEXTMAP-0085-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                     3
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Parks & Trails Committee Review. The Draper City Parks and Trails Committee has
completed their review of the Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

GIS. The Draper City GIS division has completed their review of the Zoning Map
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation based on the findings listed below and the criteria
for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                the city's general plan;
        2.      The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
                existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        3.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
                overlay zone;
        4.      The proposed amendment does not adversely affect adjacent property; and
        5.      Adequate facilities and services exist to serve the subject property, including,
                but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
                protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
                wastewater and refuse collection.

The findings for a negative recommendation are as follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                policies of the city's general plan;
        2.      The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
                existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        3.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any
                applicable overlay zone;
        4.      The proposed amendment adversely affects adjacent property; and



BNSN                                                                App. # TEXTMAP-0085-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                    4
        5.      Adequate facilities and services do not exist to serve the subject property,
                including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police
                and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
                and wastewater and refuse collection.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Brian Newberry,
representing BNSN Investments LLC, application TEXTMAP-0085-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 14, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Brian Newberry,
representing BNSN Investments LLC, application TEXTMAP-0085-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 14, 2021and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Brian Newberry, representing
BNSN Investments LLC, application TEXTMAP-0085-2021, based on the findings and subject
to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 14, 2021.




BNSN                                                                App. # TEXTMAP-0085-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                    5
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      The included legal description is abbreviated and does not adequately
               describe the outer boundary of the area requested to be rezoned. Need to
               provide an updated legal description that describes the actual property
               boundaries before this item can be placed on a City Council Agenda.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      No additional Comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional Comments

GIS Review.

       1.      The property description in the application must be unabbreviated. Please
               provide an unabbreviated legal description.

Parks & Trails Committee Review.

       1.      Review not required.
              EXHIBIT B
LEGAL DESCRIPTION (FOR TAX PURPOSES)
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
