                            Development Review Committee
                                 1020 East Pioneer Road
                                   Draper, UT 84020
                                     August 5, 2021

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: August 12, 2021

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     City Initiated Accessory Dwelling Unit Text Amendment
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-0113-2021
        Applicant:        Draper City
        Project Location: City Wide
        Current Zoning: City Wide
        Acreage:          City Wide
        Request:          Request for approval of a Text Amendment in order to modify
                          Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Sections 9-3-040, 9-30-010,
                          9-30-020, 9-31-010, 9-31-020, 9-31-030, 9-31-040, 9-31-050,
                          and 9-31-060, and to enact Sections 9-5-210, 9-31-045, 9-31-
                          070, 9-31-080, and 9-31-090 for the purpose of amending
                          and enacting regulations pertaining to definitions, second
                          kitchens in single-family dwellings, and accessory dwelling
                          units (ADUs).


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment that includes multiple
changes to Title 9 of the DCMC related to definitions, the regulation of second kitchens in
single-family dwellings, and ADUs. These ordinance changes are necessary in part to bring
the DCMC into compliance with the requirements of H.B. 82 passed by the Utah State
Legislature during the 2021 legislative session.

ANALYSIS



City Initiated ADU                                             App. # TEXTMAP-0113-2021
Text Amendment Request                       1
Text Amendments. This report will review the modifications being proposed. The legislative
copy of the changes can be found in Exhibit B of this report. Additions to the text are
indicated in blue, deletions in red, and unchanged text in black.

DCMC Section 9-3-040: Definitions: The definition for an accessory dwelling unit (ADU) is
proposed to be changed to match the definition in state code. This is necessary in order to
add context for the new definition for an internal accessory dwelling unit (I-ADU) that is
also proposed. A similar definition utilizing the general definition for an ADU is being
proposed for a detached accessory dwelling unit (D-ADU), which also clarifies the intent
that D-ADUs are only allowed in conjunction with an owner occupied primary dwelling.
Other terms proposed for addition to the definitions chapter include, dwelling occupant,
dwelling unit footprint, primary dwelling and rental dwelling. All of the additional terms
proposed for addition to the definitions section follow the same definitions in state law. A
definition for owner of record is also proposed to be added before the ordinance is
presented to the City Council in order to more succinctly define the applicable level of
ownership necessary for the primary dwelling to be considered as owner occupied.

DCMC Section 9-5-210: Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Permits: This section is proposed to be
added to the administrative and development review procedures chapter in order to
provide a process for review and approval of ADU permits and for renewing, transferring
and revocation of the same. ADU permits would be a new type of permit issued by the
Planning and Zoning Division and the Zoning Administrator. The section lays out the
application submittal requirements, and provides objective standards under which the
Zoning Administrator of their designee can make decisions regarding the approval and
issuance of the initial ADU permit. A simplified process for permit renewal including the
issuance of a renewal certificate and the transfer of a permit to a new owner are also
provided. Provisions are also included for appeals of the Zoning Administrators decision,
and details regarding revocation, surrender, and expiration of permits. ADU permits are to
be renewed annually and the initial permit must be exercised by obtaining a building
permit for the construction of the ADU within 180 days of the initial permit issuance.

DCMC Section 9-30-010: Purpose: The purpose statement in DCMC Chapter 30: Second Kitchen
in a Single-Family Dwelling is proposed to be changed to specifically point out that that
approval for a second kitchen does not create an I-ADU.

DCMC Section 9-30-020: DEVELPPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE: Proposed updates to this
section include the addition of other primarily single family residential zones where second
kitchens would be allowed, and an update to the interior access requirements to
strengthen the requirement that a second dwelling unit or I-ADU is not created.

DCMC Section 9-31-010: Purpose: The purpose statement for DCMC Chapter 31: Accessory
Dwellings is proposed to be significantly shortened, to simply denote that the chapter



City Initiated ADU                                             App. # TEXTMAP-0113-2021
Text Amendment Request                        2
provides regulations for I-ADUs and D-ADUs in specific residential zones.

DCMC Section 9-31-020: Scope: The scope of the accessory dwellings chapter is proposed to
be expanded to include both I-ADUs and D-ADUs. The permitted locations for I-ADUs are
proposed to be regulated in accordance with State code and prohibited locations within
primarily single family zoned areas are identified on a map included as a new exhibit
attached to Chapter 31.The minimum lot size required for a D-ADU is proposed to be
adjusted uniformly across all zones to 12,000 square feet.

DCMC Section 9-31-030: Definitions: This section is proposed to be retitled as 9-31-030:
General Regulations: as all pertinent definitions within Title 9 of the DCMC are proposed to
be relocated into Section 9-3-040. The new general standards section proposed is intended
to accomplish the following:
    • Prevent instances of properties having more than one ADU.
    • Restrict primary dwellings from more than one I-ADU, or adding an I-ADU into
       another detached structure.
    • Prohibit I-ADUs from being added to single-family dwelling located on lots less than
       6,000 ft² in size.
    • Prohibit I-ADUs within mobile homes.
    • Prohibit I-AUDs on properties with failing septic systems.
    • Prohibit the installation of separate utility meters for I-ADUs and D-ADUs.
    • Prohibit rental of an I-ADU for a period of time that is less than 30 days.
    • Require an initial permit and review for the development of an ADU and an annual
       renewal of the permit for operation thereafter.

DCMC Section 9-31-040: Development Standards: This section is proposed to be retitled as D-
ADU Development Standards and provides requirements specific for the development and
use of a D-ADU. The requirements remain generally unchanged from the previous
requirements for ADUs including the requirement that they be detached from the main
dwelling unit. Changes to the current ordinance requirements include:
   • Clarification that the D-ADU must comply with the same setback and height
       requirements as a main building in the zone they are located in.
   • A prohibition against locating a D-ADU in a front yard.
   • Clarification regarding the addition of parking onto the property for the D-ADU that
       is not in conflict with required parking for the primary dwelling.
   • Clarification that driveways serving parking spaces for D-ADUs must comply with
       other requirements of ordinance.
   • Additional clarification that garage space does not count when calculating the
       maximum size of a D-ADU for each individual property.

DCMC Section 9-31-045: I-ADU Development Standards: This section is a new section proposed
to be enacted in order to provide specific development standards for I-ADUs. These
standards are designed to enact the standards for I-ADUs allowable under state code.



City Initiated ADU                                             App. # TEXTMAP-0113-2021
Text Amendment Request                       3
These new proposed standards include:
   • The specific requirement that the I-ADU be contained within the existing footprint of
      the single-family dwelling.
   • Additional clarification that second kitchens approved under the provisions of
      Chapter 30 of the DCMC do not constitute an I-ADU, but that single-family dwellings
      that have a second kitchen can convert the second kitchen into an I-ADU by filing an
      application to do so and complying with the provisions of DCMC Chapter 31.
   • A requirement to provide parking for the I-ADU that mirrors the same requirements
      as the D-ADU.
   • A requirement to replace any parking spaces located in a garage or carport that are
      eliminated through the creation of an I-ADU.
   • General requirements as permitted by the changes to state law with respect to
      compliance with applicable building, health, and fire codes.
   • A prohibition against exterior modifications which would alter the appearance of the
      home to appear as other than a single-family dwelling.

DCMC Section 9-31-050: Additional Kitchens: This section is proposed to be retitled Second
Kitchens to match the terminology used in DCMC Chapter 30. The new proposed language
maintains the ability to add a second kitchen into a D-ADU with an added emphasis that a
second dwelling unit or living accommodation may not be created. These kitchens are
mainly intended for the purpose of entertaining guests or as accessory to other
recreational or leisure facilities located on the grounds.

DCMC Section 9-31-060: Notice of Accessory Dwelling Unit: This section is proposed to be
updated to match the state code standards for I-ADUs, but is proposed to be applied to all
ADUs. The basic standards for the notice include a description of the primary dwelling and
statements intended to notify future property owners regarding the existence and
approval of an ADU on the property and the requirement that the ADU may only be used in
accordance with the land use regulations of the City.

DCMC Section 9-31-070: Nonconforming Units: This section is proposed to provide
clarification as to the status of legally existing ADUs within Draper City established prior to
the enactment of the proposed ordinance revisions and the effective date of the changes in
state code requiring the city to permit I-ADUs within primary residential zones. This section
clarifies that legal non-conforming units may continue to operate under the applicable
provisions in effect at the time they were established. Additionally this section permits
these legal non-conforming units to obtain a separate street address and install a mailbox
without affecting their legal non-conforming status. Allowing for accurate street addressing
addresses a health and safety issue for emergency response, and separate mailboxes can
help with alleviating privacy concerns between the separate households.

DCMC Section 9-31-080: Violations: This section is proposed to be enacted to both specify
particular actions of a property owner which would constitute a violation of the ADU



City Initiated ADU                                               App. # TEXTMAP-0113-2021
Text Amendment Request                        4
requirements and provide enforcement provisions for ADUs that are consistent with state
law. Details are included regarding the requirements for issuing a written notice of
violation, the minimum cure periods in state law that an applicant has to correct a violation,
and procedures for an owner to file a written objection to a notice of violation. Procedures
for the hearings of a written objection before the Zoning Administrator are outlined, as are
the procedures for and circumstances under which fines and liens can be imposed, for
violations of the ADU provisions of the ordinance.

DCMC Section 9-31-090: Exhibits: This section is proposed to be enacted in order to attach a
map within the ADU chapter, identifying areas and properties in the city which would be
prohibited from creating an I-ADU within a primary single-family dwelling. Zone A on the
map indicates the areas where I-ADUs would be prohibited, including areas with lots under
6,000 ft² in size which under state law the city can prohibit outright. Areas within Zone A on
the map also represent properties and neighborhoods which staff has identified as having
characteristics that if I-ADUs were permitted, would most likely result in negative impacts
to existing residents of those neighborhoods. The total area proposed for exclusion is
equal to approximately 15.8% of the total area of the city zoned primarily for residential
use, which is below the maximum amount of 25% permitted by state law. Zone B on the
map represents an area of the city where ADUs within a single-family dwelling may be
regulated to some extent by prior city ordinances in accordance with the development
agreement under which the area was developed. The map provided with this report is a
draft map developed by staff with preliminary input from staff and the City Council. The
draft map is still in development and additional alterations based on feedback from the
public, the Planning Commission, and the City Council may occur at the direction of staff,
the Planning Commission, or the City Council prior to passage of the Text Amendment.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Text Amendment
request is found in Sections 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

        2. Text Amendments:
             a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                of the city's general plan;
             b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                zoning ordinance;
             c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
             d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
                of this title or the general plan;
             e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
                and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                represents an overall community benefit; and




City Initiated ADU                                                App. # TEXTMAP-0113-2021
Text Amendment Request                          5
             f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
                 professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City
ordinances. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings listed
below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                the city's general plan;
        2.      The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                zoning ordinance;
        3.      The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request



City Initiated ADU                                                  App. # TEXTMAP-0113-2021
Text Amendment Request                           6
                and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
        4.      The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
                part of this title or the general plan;
        5.      The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                represents an overall community benefit; and
        6.      The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for a negative recommendation are as follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                policies of the city's general plan;
        2.      The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements
                of the zoning ordinance;
        3.      The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the
                request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the
                zoning ordinance;
        4.      The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part
                of this title or the general plan;
        5.      The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does
                not represent an overall community benefit; and
        6.      The proposed text amendment does not implement best current,
                professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated
Accessory Dwelling Unit Text Amendment, application TEXTMAP-0113-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 5, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City
Initiated Accessory Dwelling Unit Text Amendment, application TEXTMAP-0113-2021, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 5, 2021
and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City



City Initiated ADU                                                 App. # TEXTMAP-0113-2021
Text Amendment Request                          7
Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated
Accessory Dwelling Unit Text Amendment, application TEXTMAP-0113-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 5, 2021.




City Initiated ADU                                           App. # TEXTMAP-0113-2021
Text Amendment Request                      8
                                     EXHIBIT A
                                DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     The proposed modifications provide needed updates to Title 9 of the Draper
              City Municipal Code for the orderly development of Accessory Dwelling Units
              within the City in response to the changes in law enacted by the State
              Legislature set to be effective on October 1st, 2021.
                                         EXHIBIT B
                                    LESISLATIVE DRAFT


9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

…

ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): A subordinate residential dwelling, detached from the
primary dwelling unit, which has a kitchen, living/sleeping area, and sanitation facilities. A
habitable living unit added to, created within, or detached from a primary single-family
dwelling and contained on one lot.

ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, DETACHED (D-ADU): An accessory dwelling unit, detached
from a primary single-family dwelling.

ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, INTERNAL (I-ADU): An accessory dwelling unit created:

    A. Within a primary dwelling;

    B. Within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory
       dwelling unit is created; and

    C. For the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer.

DWELLING OCCUPANT: One or more persons living in a dwelling unit.

…

DWELLING UNIT FOOTPRINT: The perimeter footing or foundation of the dwelling unit.

DWELLING, PRIMARY: A single-family dwelling that is detached and is occupied as the
primary residence of the owner of record.

DWELLING, RENTAL: A building or portion of a building that is used or designated for use as
a residence by one or more persons; and

    A. Available to be rented, loaned, leased, or hired out for a period of one month or
       longer; or

    B. Arranged designed, or built to be rented, loaned, leased, or hired out for a period of
       one month or longer.

…

OWNER OF RECORD: …

…
9-5-210: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU) PERMITS:

  A. Purpose: This section sets forth procedures for issuing, renewing, transferring and
     revoking permits for an ADU under the provisions of chapter 31 of this title.

  B. Authority: The zoning administrator is authorized to review and approve
     applications for an ADU.

  C. Initiation: The property owner or their agent may request approval of an initial ADU
     permit to establish an ADU on the owner’s property.

  D. Procedure: Applications for approval of an initial ADU permit, or for changes to an
     existing ADU, shall be considered and processed as provided in this section:

     1.   A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
          administrator in a form established by the administrator along with any fee
          established by the city’s consolidated fee schedule. The application shall include
          at least the following information:

          a. The name, address and telephone number of the property owner and the
             property owners agent, if any.

          b. Scaled site plans illustrating:

               (1) Property boundaries and dimensions;

               (2) Layout of existing and proposed buildings and parking; and

               (3) Building setbacks from property lines.

          c. Floor plans of all floors.

          d. For new proposed construction: architectural elevation drawings of all four
             sides of the structure including details of proposed colors and materials; or

          e. For existing structures: digital photographs of all four sides of the existing
             building.

          f.   A copy of the current sewer bill for the primary dwelling. For properties
               where the primary dwelling is not connected to sewer provide evidence of
               septic system maintenance including pumping records for the previous 12
               months.

          g. Other information as needed or requested by the zoning administrator to
             demonstrate that the use conforms to applicable provisions of this title.

     2. After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning administrator
        shall review the application and approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
   application pursuant to the standards set forth in subsection 9-5-210(E) below.
   As part of the review process the zoning administrator may forward a copy of
   the application and any related materials to other agencies. Any conditions of
   approval shall be limited to conditions needed to conform to the approval
   standards.

3. After making a decision the zoning administrator shall give the applicant written
   notice of the decision.

4. An annual renewal of each ADU permit issued under the provisions of
   subsection 9-31-030(H) and this section shall be required.

   a. The application for the annual renewal shall consist of a signed and notarized
      affidavit from the property owner, on a form approved by the city attorney,
      attesting to the following:

       (1) They are the current property owner of record;

       (2) They continue to occupy the primary dwelling on the property as their
           primary residence;

       (3) The ADU remains in compliance with applicable ordinances and all
           conditions under which it was approved;

       (4) They will continue to use the ADU only in a manner that complies with
           applicable ordinances and all conditions of the initial ADU permit.

   b. When an ADU permit is renewed the zoning administrator shall issue a
      certificate of renewal inclusive of the next annual date on which the
      certificate and ADU permit shall expire if not renewed.

5. ADU permits issued under the provisions of subsection 9-31-030(H) and this
   section may be transferred to a new owner of the property.

   a. An application for transfer of an ADU permit shall consist of a signed and
      notarized affidavit from the new owner, on a form approved by the city
      attorney, attesting to the following:

       (1) They are the current property owner of record;

       (2) They occupy the primary dwelling on the property as their primary
           residence;

       (3) The ADU remains in compliance with applicable ordinances and all
           conditions under which it was approved;
          (4) They will continue to use the ADU only in a manner that complies with
              applicable ordinances and all conditions of the initial ADU permit.

       b. Before transfer of an ADU permit to a new owner may occur, an inspection of
          the property by the city for verification of continued compliance with
          applicable ordinances and conditions of the initial ADU permit shall be
          required.

       c. When an ADU permit is transferred to a new owner the zoning administrator
          shall issue a new ADU permit in the name of the new owner inclusive of all
          conditions of the initial ADU permit.

   6. A record of all ADU permits shall be maintained in the office of the zoning
      administrator.

E. Approval Standards: The following standards shall apply to the issuance of an ADU
   permit. An ADU must:

   1. Be allowed as a permitted use in the applicable zone and not otherwise be
      restricted from the property by the provisions of chapter 31 of this title;

   2. Comply with development standards of the applicable zone and the applicable
      development standards of chapter 31 of this title;

   3. Comply with applicable regulations of general applicability and regulations for
      the specific use as set forth in this title;

   4. Comply with applicable provisions of State Code.

   5. Comply with any other applicable requirements of this code.

F. Appeal of Decision: An adversely affected party may appeal a decision of the zoning
   administrator regarding the approval or denial of an ADU permit to the appeals and
   variance hearing officer in accordance with the provisions of section 9-5-180 of this
   chapter.

G. Effect of Approval: Approval of an ADU permit shall authorize the property owner to
   establish an accessory dwelling unit on the property in compliance with the
   requirements of chapter 31 of this title subject to any conditions of approval.

H. Revocation: An ADU permit may be revoked by the zoning administrator if in their
   determination, actions taken under the permit do not conform to the approved
   plans, specifications, or conditions of the permit; the permit was procured by false
   representation; the permit was issued by mistake; or that other applicable
   provisions of this title are being violated.
1. Written notice of revocation shall be served upon the owner, and may be
   delivered directly to the owner, owner’s agent, contractor, tenant, any person
   employed at the site, or be posted in a prominent location on or near the site.

2. After the written notice of revocation is served no further construction
   pertaining to the creation of an ADU may continue.

3. After the written notice of revocation is served no new agreement for tenancy or
   extension of an existing tenancy agreement beyond the original term of the
   agreement may be entered into by the property owner.

4. If the permit was issued by mistake, the property owner shall meet with the
   zoning administrator to discuss in what respect the mistake was made and the
   specific conflicts between the permit as issued and applicable ordinances,
   resolutions, regulations, and requirements.

   a. If the mistake pertains to details regarding the construction of the ADU and
      compliance would not require substantial alteration to the existing
      construction of the ADU, the plans and construction of the ADU shall be
      modified to conform to all applicable requirements and the ADU permit may
      be reinstated by the zoning administrator.

   b. If the mistake pertains to details regarding the construction of the ADU and
      compliance would require substantial alteration to the existing construction
      of the ADU, the zoning administrator shall negotiate changes to the plans
      and construction which would more nearly conform to applicable
      requirements. A new ADU permit may be issued by the zoning administrator
      based on compliance with the negotiated changes to the plans and
      construction.

   c. For all other mistakes made in the issuance of an ADU permit not related to
      the construction of the ADU, a new ADU permit may not be issued except in
      conformance with applicable ordinances, resolutions, regulations, and
      requirements.

5. For ADU permits revoked due to failure to comply with the approved plans,
   specifications, or conditions of the permit or when other applicable provisions of
   this title are being violated, a written notice of violation shall be provided either
   prior to or in conjunction with the notice of revocation. The zoning administrator
   may not issue a new ADU permit or reinstate the original ADU permit unless the
   violations noted in the notice of violation are corrected and compliance with the
   plans, specifications and conditions of the permit are achieved.
           a. The written notice of violation shall comply with the requirements listed in 9-
              31-080(D).

           b. If an owner files a written objection to the written notice of violation the
              zoning administrator shall provide the required notice and hold a hearing as
              specified in 9-31-080(F) to determine whether the specific violation described
              in the written notice of violation has occurred.

   I.   Properties for which an ADU permit has been revoked may be subject to the
        recordation of a notice of non-compliance against the property and shall be
        prohibited from renting, leasing, hiring or loaning the accessory dwelling unit.

   J.   Surrender: The holder of an ADU permit may voluntarily obtain the applicable
        building permit or demolition permit to remove an ADU, restore the property to use
        as a single-family dwelling, and surrender the ADU permit to the city. If the property
        owner desires the kitchen associated with the ADU to remain, compliance with the
        requirements of chapter 30 of this title is required. Once the restoration to a single-
        family dwelling is complete the City shall record a notice of release from any notice
        of accessory dwelling unit previously recorded, and record a separate notice of
        second kitchen if necessary.

   K. Expiration: An ADU permit shall expire if not exercised by obtaining a building
      permit for the construction of the ADU within one-hundred eighty (180) days of the
      initial ADU permit issuance. ADU permits shall be renewed annually and renewals
      shall expire one year from issuance.


9-30-010: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter is to establish use and development regulations for a second
kitchen within a single-family residence. These regulations are adopted for the following
purposes:

   A. To allow city residents to have a second kitchen within a single-family dwelling unit
      for use by the family residing within the dwelling unit for the purpose of
      entertaining, recreation or convenience, accessory to the first kitchen within the
      dwelling unit.

   B. Approval of a To prohibit the use of a second kitchen within a single-family dwelling
      unit shall not be an approval of that functions like a second dwelling unit or internal
      accessory dwelling unit (I-ADU) in violation of without the required approvals for
      such as prescribed under chapter 31 of this title.
9-30-020: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE:

   A. A second kitchen in a single-family residence (dwelling unit) may be allowed in an
      A5, A2, RA1, RA2, RH, R3, R4, R5, MPC, or RSD zone if all of the following
      requirements are met:

       1. The residence shall have has only one front entrance.

       2. The residence shall have has only one address.

       3. An interior access shall be is maintained to all parts of the residence to assure
          that an second dwelling unit or I-ADU accessory unit or apartment is not created.
          There shall be no keyed and dead bolt locks or other manner of limiting or
          restricting access between both kitchens and other common areas within the
          single-family from the second kitchen to the remainder of the residence.

       4. The residence shall have has no more than one electrical meter.

       5. AThe second kitchen shall exists only as part of the single-family dwelling
          primary structure and shall is not be installed in an accessory or "out" building
          except as permitted with a detached accessory dwelling unit (D-ADU) pursuant
          to section 9-31-050.

       6. Construction of any such kitchen shall meet standards of the current building
          codes adopted by the city.

   B. A second kitchen shall not be established in a single-family residential structure
      which with an I-ADUaccessory dwelling, whether or not such



9-31-010: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter is to establish use and development regulations for internal
accessory dwelling units (I-ADUs) and detached accessory dwelling units (D-ADUs) within
specified residential zones. These regulations are adopted

   A. To allow city residents to accommodate guests on the residential property in the
      same manner and purpose as the main dwelling;

   B. To accommodate an ADU in single dwelling zones that allow only one dwelling
      structure per parcel with minimal impacts on the neighborhood in terms of traffic,
      noise, parking, congestion, and compatible scale and appearance of surrounding
      residential buildings; and

   C. To establish uniform standards of use and development of ADUs
9-31-020: SCOPE:

The requirements of this chapter shall apply to any I-ADUs and D-ADUs within the city.
ADUs shall be a permitted use in all residential zoning districts or when a single parcel unit
is approved in the RM1 and RM2 zoning districts, but only when the minimum lot areas as
required in section 9-10-090, table 9-10-3 of this title, is satisfied. ADUs are also permitted
in residential special districts (RSD) if the minimum lot area of the single unit parcel is
twelve thousand (12,000) square feet.

   A. I-ADUs shall be a permitted use in all primary residential zoning districts except in
      the restricted areas identified on the map included as exhibit A in section 9-31-090
      of this chapter.
   B. D-ADUs shall be a permitted use in all primary residential zoning districts, master
      planned community zones (MPC), and residential special districts (RSD) on individual
      lots or parcels twelve-thousand square feet (12,000 ft²) or greater in size that
      contain no more than one single-family dwelling.

9-31-030: DEFINITIONS:GENERAL REGULATIONS:

As used in this chapter:

ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): A subordinate residential use detached from the
primary dwelling unit, which has a kitchen, living/sleeping area, and sanitation facilities.

DWELLING LOT: A parcel with one dwelling unit.

DWELLING OCCUPANT: One or more persons living in a dwelling unit.

DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a single dwelling designed for or occupied as living
quarters which provide sleeping and sanitary facilities and which includes at least one
kitchen, and where all rooms are for exclusive collective use by the occupants and the
property is under one deed of title.

DWELLING UNIT FOOTPRINT: The perimeter footing or foundation of the dwelling unit.

PARCEL: A lot legally subdivided and assigned a county assessor's parcel number (APN).
(Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)

   A. D-ADUs may not be permitted for any property containing an I-ADU. As a condition
      of approval for any application for a D-ADU, the property owner shall agree to waive
      any right to construct an I-ADU on the same property unless the D-ADU is first
      removed from the property. This condition shall be included in the recorded notice
      of accessory dwelling unit required by section 9-31-060 of this chapter.
   B. Primary dwellings are not permitted to contain more than one I-ADU. I-ADUs are not
      permitted within a D-ADU or other detached structure.

   C. I-ADUs shall not be permitted in single-family residential dwellings located on lots or
      parcels that are six-thousand square feet (6,000 ft²) or less in size.

   D. I-ADUs are not permitted within mobile homes.

   E. I-ADUs are not permitted within a primary dwelling unit serviced by a failing septic
      system.

   F. Separate utility meters may not be installed for any I-ADU or D-ADU.

   G. An I-ADU shall not be rented, loaned, hired or leased for a time period of less than
      thirty (30) consecutive days.

   H. An Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Permit issued by the zoning administrator shall be
      required for the development and use of any I-ADU or D-ADU and shall be renewed
      annually each year. ADU permits shall be subject to the application procedures of
      section 9-5-210 and shall only be issued once all regulations and standards of this
      section and sections 9-31-040 or 9-31-045 as applicable to the specific type of ADU
      are met.

   I.   The primary dwelling shall be occupied by the owner of record as their primary
        residence and may not be separately rented, or offered for rent.



9-31-040: D-ADU DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to each D-ADU:

   A. Separate Structure: An D-ADU is a separate structure from the primary dwelling
   unit. Second kitchens within a dwelling unit's footprint are not considered an ADU and
   are subject to requirements found in chapter 30 of this title.

   B. Conditions: An D-ADU may only be established in accordance with the applicable
   requirements of section 9-31-030 and in compliance with the all of be allowed under
   the following conditions:

        1. Only one D-ADU shall be allowed per dwelling lot or parcel.

        2. An D-ADU shall comply with the same setbacks for a main building in not be
           within the building front, rear, or side yard setbacks for the zoning district in
           which the dwelling lot or parcel is located.
       3. An D-ADU shall be located within the rear yard area of the lot or parcel and is
          prohibited within the front yard areanot be built prior to the completion of the
          dwelling unit.

       4. An ADU shall provide atAt least one additional parking stall than above the
          minimum required for the primary dwelling unit shall be provided on site and be
          reserved for exclusive use by occupants of the D-ADU in its zoning district. The
          parking stall(s) provided for use of the occupants of the D-ADU may not be
          located in tandem with parking stalls designed to serve the primary dwelling unit
          and shall be accessible from the street by a driveway constructed of a hard
          surface, such as concrete or asphalt. Driveways must conform to all
          requirements of section 9-10-075 and other applicable requirements of this title.

       5. No separate mailbox, street address, or water, sewer, electric or gas utility
          metering shall be allowed for an ADU.

       56. An The total square footage of a D-ADU shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of
          the primary dwelling unit's total square footage of habitable space not including
          the garage.

       67. An D-ADU shall comply with all building construction and fire codes in effect at
          the time the D-ADU is constructed, created or subsequently remodeled,
          including the obtaining of required building and other permits.

       78. The architectural design, color pallet, and materials for an of a D-ADU shall
          match those of the primary dwelling unit.

       89. The height of an D-ADU shall conform to the height limit specified for main
          buildings in the zoning district in which it is located.



9-31-045: I-ADU DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to each I-ADU:

   A. Existing Structure: An I-ADU shall be contained within the existing footprint of the
      primary dwelling structure. Second kitchens within the primary dwelling's footprint
      are not considered an I-ADU and are subject to requirements found in chapter 30 of
      this title. An existing second kitchen located within a primary dwelling can be
      converted as part of an application for the creation of an I-ADU in compliance with
      all other standards for I-ADUs listed in this chapter.
   B. Conditions: An I-ADU may only be established in accordance with the applicable
      requirements of section 9-31-030 and in compliance with the all of the following
      conditions:

       1. Only one I-ADU shall be allowed per lot or parcel.

       2. At least one additional parking stall above the minimum required for the primary
          dwelling unit shall be provided on site and be reserved for exclusive use by
          occupants of the I-ADU. The parking stall(s) provided for use of the occupants of
          the I-ADU may not be located in tandem with parking stalls designed to serve the
          primary dwelling unit and shall be accessible from the street by a driveway
          constructed of concrete or asphalt. Driveways must conform to all requirements
          of section 9-10-075 and other applicable requirements of this title.

       3. If an I-ADU is created within a garage or carport attached to the primary dwelling
          the parking spaces contained within the garage or carport that are removed
          shall be replaced in conformance with current parking and access standards.

       4. The I-ADU shall comply with all applicable building, health and fire codes in
          effect at the time the I-ADU is constructed, created or subsequently remodeled.
          An applicant for an I-ADU shall obtain all required building and other permits.

       5. In accommodating an I-ADU within the primary dwelling, the exterior of the
          primary dwelling may not be changed or altered in a manner that would alter
          the appearance of the primary dwelling from that of a single-family dwelling.



9-31-050: ADDITIONAL SECOND KITCHENS:

An additional second kitchen in an D-ADU may be allowed for the purpose of
entertainment or recreation as long as the second kitchen is not intended to serve a does
not create a separate dwelling unit or living accommodation within the D-ADU.



9-31-060: NOTICE OF ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT:

   A. As part of the ADU permit process, the owner of the property shall execute a "notice
      of accessory dwelling unit" affidavit that defines the approved use and all
      restrictions or conditions of approval. The city shall record the notice with the
      county recorder as a use condition on the property. The notice shall be in a form
      approved by the Draper City attorney. Once recorded, a copy of the notice shall be
      delivered to the owner of the property.

   B. The notice of accessory dwelling unit shall include:
       1. A description of the primary dwelling;

       2. Either of the following statements as applicable to the type of ADU permit being
          issued:

            a.      The primary dwelling contains an I-ADU and that the I-ADU may only
              be used in accordance with the land use regulations of Draper City; or

            b.       That the primary dwelling is permitted the use of a D-ADU located on
              the property and that the D-ADU may only be used in accordance with the
              land use regulations of Draper City.



9-31-070: NONCONFORMING UNITS:

   A. Accessory dwelling units, including I-ADUs or D-ADUs, legally established prior to
      October 1, 2021 which do not conform to one or more provisions of this chapter
      may continue to operate under the applicable provisions in effect at the time they
      were established in accordance with chapter 6 of this title. Nonconforming ADUs
      shall also be required to obtain and maintain an ADU permit under the procedures
      of section 9-5-210.

   B. Existing legal nonconforming ADUs without separate street addressing or
      mailboxes, shall be permitted under this section to obtain and display a separate
      street address and add the accompanying mailbox to the property without affecting
      their nonconforming status. All addressing must receive approval from both Draper
      City and the Salt Lake County Addressing department.



9-31-080: VIOLATIONS:

Violations of the requirements of this chapter shall be enforced consistent with the
provisions of this title and applicable provisions of State Code and may include liens and
fines as per Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-530(5) as amended.

   A. It shall be a violation of this ordinance for a property owner to rent, or offer to rent
      an ADU, or to offer to do the same, without acquiring or maintaining an ADU permit
      as required by this chapter.

   B. It shall be a violation of this ordinance for a property owner to rent, or offer to rent
      an ADU, or offer to do the same, for a time period shorter than the minimum period
      specified in ordinance.
C. It shall be a violation of this ordinance for a property owner to continue to rent,
   lease, hire, or loan an ADU, if the primary dwelling associated with the ADU ceases
   to be owner occupied.

D. Written Notice of Violation: Whenever an owner of the property containing an ADU
   has violated any of the provisions of this chapter the city shall provide a written
   notice of violation. The written notice of violation shall:

   1. Describe the specific violation;

   2. Provide the owner an opportunity to cure or correct the violation that is:

         a.        Not less than 14 days after the day on which the notice of violation is
           sent, for violations of 9-31-080(B) above;

         b.       Not less than 30 days after the day on which the notice of violation is
           sent for any other violation;

   3. Include a statement that if the property owner fails to cure or correct the
      violation within the given time period that the City may hold a lien against the
      property in the applicable amount as specified in the consolidated fee schedule
      for each day of violation after the day on which the opportunity to cure the
      violation expires;

   4. Provide notification to the property owner that they may file a written objection
      to the violation within 14 days after the day on which the written notice of
      violation is post-marked or posted on the property;

   5. Indicate the department name and an address where the owner may file the
      written objection;

   6. The notice shall be mailed to the property owner of record, to any other
      individual designated to receive notice in the owner’s license or permit records,
      and a copy of the notice shall be posted on the property.

E. Notice of lien: A written notice of lien issued under this section shall:

   1. Comply with the requirements of Utah Code Annotated, section 38-12-102

   2. State that the property is subject to a lien;

   3. Specify the lien amount, as specified in the consolidated fee schedule for each
      day of violation after the day on which the opportunity to cure the violation
      expires;
      4. The notice shall be mailed to the property owner of record, to any other
         individual designated to receive notice in the owner’s license or permit records,
         and a copy of the notice shall be posted on the property.

   F. If an owner files a written objection to the written notice of violation in accordance
      with 9-31-080(D) the zoning administrator shall provide notice and hold a hearing in
      accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-530(5)(d) to conduct
      a review and determine whether the specific violation described in the written
      notice of violation has occurred. If the zoning administrator determines that the
      specific violation in the notice of violation has occurred the city may impose a lien
      on the property as described in section 9-31-080(E) of this title.

   G. If an owner does not file a written objection to the written notice of violation in 9-31-
      080(D) and does not cure or correct the violation within the time period provided in
      the notice, the city may impose a lien on the property as described in section 9-31-
      080(E) of this title.

   H. If an owner cures a violation within the time period prescribed in the written notice
      of violation, the city may not hold a lien against the property, or impose any penalty
      or fee on the owner, in relation to the specific violation described in the written
      notice of violation.



9-31-090: EXHIBITS:
Exhibit A
