Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: December 16, 2021
Re: Fitzgerald Subdivision – Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, Development Agreement Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and Development Agreement for approximately 27.37 acres located between Pioneer Road, 12600 S, 12650 South, and the Salt Lake County Library Senior Center Complex. The property is located at approximately 1060 East Pioneer Rd. The property is currently zoned TC adjacent to Pioneer Rd, and RA1 and RA2 to the south . The applicant is requesting that a Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and Development Agreement to develop the property with for 111 single-family residential lots and roughly 30,000 square feet of commercial space . The findings are as follows: The findings for approval as are follows:
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   There is adequate facilities and services to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6.   The Land Use Map Amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F), 9-5-060(D) and Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-404.
7.   The Development Agreement complies with DCMC Section 9-5-200(C) and (D).
8.   Higher density development is supported given the property’s proximity to a TRAX Station and the Town Center.
9.   The R4 area provides an adequate buffer between the higher density development and the existing lower density neighborhoods in the vicinity.
10.   The proposed development maintains TC zoning and development along Pioneer Road and across from the TRAX Station.
The findings for denial as are follows:
1.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   There is not adequate facilities and services to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6.   Traffic is a concern in the area overall and development at higher densities will exacerbate the situation.
7.   The proposed RM2 area effectively eliminates rear and side yards from lots due to their small size and does not provide common open space in the neighborhood to make up for the lack of yard space.
8.   The R4 zone is not an adequate buffer adjacent to the existing large lots. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 12/10/2021 Cover Memo Traffic Impact Study 12/10/2021 Cover Memo