                                   Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                            June 14, 2021

To:                  Draper City Planning Commission
                     Business Date: June 24, 2021

From:                Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:      City Initiated State Law Changes Text Amendment
         Application No.: TEXTMAP-0089-2021
         Applicant:         Draper City
         Project Location: City Wide
         Current Zoning: City Wide
         Acreage:           City Wide
         Request:           Request for approval of a Text Amendment for the purpose of
                            amending multiple portions of Draper City Municipal Code
                            (DCMC) Titles 9 and 17 to address recent changes to Utah State
                            Code.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This City initiated application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment for the
purpose of amending multiple portions of DCMC Titles 9 and 17 to address recent changes
to Utah State Code.

The 2021 Utah State Legislative Session and subsequent 2021 Utah State Legislative Special
Session saw several bills that dealt with land use regulations and subdivisions. Draper City
now needs to amend DCMC in order to comply with the new regulations.




City Initiated State Law Changes                                  App. # TEXTMAP-0089-2021
Text Amendment                                  1
ANALYSIS

Text Amendments. This report will review the modifications being proposed. The legislative
copy of the changes can be found in Exhibit B of this report. Additions to the text are
indicated in blue, deletions in red, and unchanged text in black.

DCMC Section 9-3-040: Definitions: The definition for Business Day is proposed to be added to
match with the definition in Utah State Code.

DCMC Section 9-5-120: Building Permits: Proposed updates to this section of ordinance are
necessary to ensure that zoning reviews by the zoning administrator or their designee are
carried out in a timely manner in accordance with new requirements in State code.
Updates to the land use ordinances will mirror the required documents for a complete
building permit submittal. Additional changes to the section recognize that the zoning
review is now required to be completed concurrently with the review of the plans by the
building plans reviewer, and that amendments to an approved plan require the same
review and approval process as the original review and approval.

DCMC Section 9-10-065: Regulations for Single-Family Dwellings in RM1 and RM2 zones: This
section is being removed in response to changes in State code which now prohibit cities
from regulating the exterior architectural features of single-family and two-family
dwellings.

DCMC 9-16-050: Development Standards: A minor adjustment has been added to the text to
exempt two-family dwellings in addition to single-family dwellings from planning
commission review of the exterior materials and colors within the sensitive lands overlay
zone. This is being done to bring the DCMC into compliance with State Code changes which
now prohibit cities from regulating the exterior architectural features of single-family and
two-family dwellings.

DCMC 9-27-150: Private Rights of Way: Due to the proposed removal of two-family dwellings
from regulations pertaining to multiple-family development as listed in DCMC Chapter 32,
changes to the private right-of-way access standards are being proposed to require two-
family dwellings to meet the same right-of-way width standards as single-family dwellings.

DCMC 9-32: Two-Family and Multiple-Family Dwelling Development Standards: This section is
proposed to be retitled as Multiple-Family Dwelling Development Standards as changes in
State Code limit the regulations that the City can place on two-family dwellings. Twin
homes are proposed to be removed from the list of dwelling types that constitute multiple-
family projects and similar references to two-family dwellings throughout the chapter are
proposed for elimination.

Additional changes to the development standards of Subsections 9-32-030(A) and (B) are



City Initiated State Law Changes                                 App. # TEXTMAP-0089-2021
Text Amendment                                2
proposed to clarify the intent of elements related to the massing, scale, and variation of
multiple-family dwellings. The use of a minimum of three colors is proposed as a
requirement rather than as a suggested standard and the submittal of colored
architectural elevations is being added to be consistent with similar changes previously
made to other ordinance sections to eliminate the submittal requirement of a physical
color and materials board. Additional clarification to the calculation of exterior building
materials is being added to highlight that materials for windows, doors, and roofs are not
included in the materials calculation requirements. A provision requiring the living space to
protrude out from the garage for street oriented townhomes is also proposed for
elimination as it does not reflect typical townhouse development design.

Extensive changes are proposed to Subsection 9-32-030(C) for building placement and
orientation of the site. Setback regulations have been re-written to better clarify the intent
of the regulations and make updates and additions where setback measurements were
unclear or missing. Proposed setbacks remain generally unchanged from the current
ordinance, other than the addition of a minimum ten foot (10’) setback from property lines
not otherwise addressed and the inclusion of a minimum distance or setback between
dwelling structures of fifteen feet (15’). Updated language is also proposed to help clarify
the criteria under which the Planning Commission may grant deviations from the
requirement that multiple-family projects orient towards a right-of-way accessible to
emergency vehicles. Fencing regulations are proposed to include new allowances for the
fencing of private or limited common areas as well as allow for short decorative fencing to
be placed along public streets. Current regulations regarding guest parking are proposed
for updating to follow the terminology of Chapter 25 of Title 9 which uses the term visitor
parking. The purpose of encouraging on-street parking on private streets is also proposed
for additional clarification that it provide flexibility in available parking for both residents
and visitors.

Changes proposed for Subsection 9-32-030(D) are intended to help clarify when a traffic
impact study is required, the number of access points required based on unit count, and
that sidewalks are required for both sides of private streets. The criteria for requesting a
deviation from the sidewall installation requirement have been reconfigured to better
match general ordinance formatting and to clarify that the key criterion for eliminating
sidewalk is for areas where the required sidewalk would not provide pedestrian
connectivity to any units or amenities. Additionally, proposed changes to this subsection
include additional emphasis that multiple-family projects also must comply with Chapter 9-
20 “Outdoor Lighting”, the engineering requirements for lighting required under Title 11,
and Chapter 9-23 “Landscaping and Screening”.

The amenity requirements for multiple-family projects found in Subsection 9-32-030(F) are
proposed for clarification regarding the nature of the amenities being recreational and
consolidation of the amenity requirements for projects of 50 units and above and for those
projects of 100 units and above. Proposed modifications do include clarification regarding



City Initiated State Law Changes                                   App. # TEXTMAP-0089-2021
Text Amendment                                  3
the need for at least one amenity from the list provided in Subsection 9-32-030(F)(1)(a) and
a new requirement that at least one additional amenity from the list be provided for each
additional 50 units or portion thereof.



DCMC 17-6-0010: Design Standards: This section is proposed to be retitled as Infrastructure
Design Standards as proposed changes include the removal of references to standards that
are no longer applicable to the subdivision code or are already included elsewhere in the
DCMC. The proposed revision of this section now includes reference to the design and
construction standards set by the City Engineer for roadways, sidewalks, drainage
improvements, and other pertinent infrastructure. The proposed revisions also detail that
fire hydrants are required to meet any federal, state, and local government requirements
where they have jurisdiction.

Criteria For Approval. A Text Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion
of the City Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a
recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the
following factors found in Sections 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

          2. Text Amendments:
               a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                   of the city's general plan;
               b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                   zoning ordinance;
               c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                   and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
               d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
                   of this title or the general plan;
               e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
                   and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                   represents an overall community benefit; and
               f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
                   professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission.



City Initiated State Law Changes                                      App. # TEXTMAP-0089-2021
Text Amendment                                    4
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City
ordinances. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1.        The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                   the city's general plan;
         2.        The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                   zoning ordinance;
         3.        The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                   and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
         4.        The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
                   part of this title or the general plan;
         5.        The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                   determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                   represents an overall community benefit; and
         6.        The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                   practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.        The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                   policies of the city's general plan;



City Initiated State Law Changes                                       App. # TEXTMAP-0089-2021
Text Amendment                                     5
         2.        The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements
                   of the zoning ordinance;
         3.        The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the
                   request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the
                   zoning ordinance;
         4.        The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part
                   of this title or the general plan;
         5.        The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                   determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does
                   not represent an overall community benefit; and
         6.        The proposed text amendment does not implement best current,
                   professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated
State Law Changes Text Amendment No. 2, application TEXTMAP-0089-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June14, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City
Initiated State Law Changes Text Amendment No. 2, application TEXTMAP-0089-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June14,
2021, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated State
Law Changes Text Amendment No. 2, application TEXTMAP-0089-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June14, 2021.




City Initiated State Law Changes                                    App. # TEXTMAP-0089-2021
Text Amendment                                    6
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments received.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      No additional comments received.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments received.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments received.

Legal Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments received.
                                       EXHIBIT B
                                  LESISLATIVE DRAFT

9-03-040: DEFINITIONS:
…

BUSINESS DAY: A day other than Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday.
…

9-5-120: BUILDING PERMITS:
A. Purpose: This section sets forth procedures for determining zoning compliance
of a building permit application.
B. Authority: The zoning administrator or their designee is authorized to review
applications for building permits for zoning compliance as provided in this section.
C. Initiation: Any person may apply for a building permit as provided in the current
building codes adopted by the city. Zoning compliance of a building permit
application shall be determined as provided in subsection D(1) of this section.
D. Procedure: A building permit application shall be reviewed for zoning
compliance as provided in this subsection:
       1. A complete building permit application shall be submitted to the office of
       the building official in a form established by the building official, along with
       any fee established by the city's schedule of fees. The application shall
       include at least the following information:
              a. The name, address and telephone number of the applicant, the
              construction manager/general contractor, and the applicant's agent, if
              any.
              b. A plot plan showing the following for the construction project that:
                     (1) Applicant's nameis drawn to scale;
                     (2) Site addressincludes a north arrow and legend; and
                     (3) Property boundaries and dimensionsprovides specifications
                     for the following:;
                          (a) Lot sized and dimensions;
                          (b) Setbacks and overhangs for setbacks;
                          (c) Easements;
                          (d) Property lines;
                          (e) Topographical details, if the slope of the lot or parcel is
                          greater than ten percent (10%);
                          (f) Retaining walls;
                          (g) Hard surface areas;
                     (h) Curb and gutter elevations as indicated in the
                     subdivision documents;
                     (i) Utilities, including water meter and sewer lateral
                     location;
                     (j) Street names;
                     (k) Driveway locations;
                     (l) Defensible space provisions and elevations, if required
                     by the Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code adopted under
                     Utah Code Section 15A-2-103;
                     (m) The location of the nearest hydrant;
                (4) Layout of existing and proposed buildings, parking,
               landscaping, and utilities; and
               (5) Adjoining property lines and uses within one hundred feet
               (100') of the subject property.
        c. Construction plans and drawings, including:
               (1) Elevations, only if the construction project is new
               construction;
               (2) Floor plans for each level, including the location and size of
               doors and windows;
               (3) Foundation, structural, and framing detail; and
               (4) Electrical, mechanical, and plumbing design.
        d. Documentation of Energy Code Compliance.
        e. Structural Calculations, except for tresses.
        f. A geotechnical report, including a slope stability evaluation and
        retaining wall design for properties where the slope exceeds fifteen
        percent (15%).
        g. A statement indicating that actual construction will comply with
        applicable local ordinances and building codes.
2. After the building permit application is determined to be complete, the
building official shall transmit the application to the zoning administrator.
The zoning administrator shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
zoning compliance request pursuant to the standards set forth in subsection
E of this section. Any conditions of approval shall be limited to conditions
needed to conform the permit to approval standards.
3. After making a decision, the zoning administrator shall give the building
official written notice of the zoning compliance decision.
4. A record of all zoning compliance reviews shall be maintained in the
office of the building official.
E. Approval Standards: No building permit shall be approved for zoning
compliance unless the proposed building, structure or use when built and the land
on which it is located will conform in every respect with applicable provisions of this
title and any applicable conditions of approval required under a permit applicable
to the subject property.
F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected by a decision of the zoning
administrator regarding zoning compliance of a building permit may appeal to the
appeals and variance hearing officer in accordance with the provisions of section 9-
5-180 of this chapter.
G. Effect Of Approval: Approval shall indicate acceptance of plans as compliant
with of zoning ordinancescompliance shall authorize an applicant to proceed with
the building permit review process.
H. Amendments: The procedure for amending any zoning compliance decision
shall be the same as the original procedure set forth in this section. Amendments
to an approved plan will require review and approval by the same procedures
through which the plan received the initial approval.
I. Expiration: Subject to an extension of time, a building permit shall expire and
have no further force or effect if the building, activity, construction or occupancy
authorized by the permit is not commenced within one-hundred eighty (180) days.



9-10-065: REGULATIONS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS IN RM1 AND RM2
ZONES:
Single-family dwellings in the RM1 and RM2 Zones shall exhibit exceptional qualities
that provide visual interest and promote property values. This goal shall be
achieved through exterior design that includes at least seven (7) of the following
architectural features:
       A. Porch with support columns (6 foot minimum depth).
       B. Portico entrance at front doorway.
       C. Pediment entrance with support or decorative columns or pillars.
       D. Accent shutters on windows.
       E. Moldings around windows (4 inch minimum width).
       F. Flower box under windows.
       G. Decorative brackets under eaves.
       H. Exterior crown molding with eave returns.
       I. Brick, stone, or synthetic stone calculated at fifty percent (50%) on front
       and side facades.
       J. Side or rear loaded garage.
      K. Stone or brick chimney accenting roofline.
      L. Roof gable with staggered shingle.
      M. Roof dormer.
      N. Board and batten look achieved through vertical fiber cement siding.
      O. Corner trim extending from the base to roofline. (Ord. 1096, 4-29-2014)

9-16-050: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
…
K. Architectural Design:
1. The design of buildings proposed for construction in the sensitive lands overlay
zone is encouraged to be visually compatible with the natural beauty of the foothills
and canyon areas.
2. The use of materials for buildings and fences shall blend harmoniously with the
natural setting.
3. The planning commission may review the design and comment on the specified
exterior materials and colors for all structures other than single-family and two-
family dwellings.
4. Exposed foundation walls shall not exceed four feet (4') above finished grade at
any point.
…

9-27-150: PRIVATE RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
A. Maximum Number Of Accessing Units: In any residential subdivision, a private
right-of-way shall provide access for no more than twenty (20) single-family or two-
family residential dwellings units. Private rights-of-way may also be approved for
two-family units, townhome units, and multiple-family dwelling developments, shall
be approved consistent with chapter 32 of this title.
B. Width And Cross Section: The minimum right-of-way width and cross section
design of a private right-of-way shall be:
       1. Twenty four feet (24') wide for two (2) to five (5) single-family or two-
       family residential unitsdwellings;
      2. Thirty one feet (31') wide for six (6) to ten (10) single-family or two-family
      residential unitsdwellings; and




      3. Thirty seven feet (37') wide for eleven (11) to twenty (20) single-family or
      two-family residential unitsdwellings.




…

CHAPTER 32 TWO-FAMILY AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
9-32-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum development standards for
two-family and multiple-family dwellings. These standards are intended to ensure
that such development is well buffered from and compatible with adjacent
property, serves the needs of occupants thereof, and retains long term viability and
quality through economies of scale.

9-32-020: SCOPE:
A. The requirements of this chapter shall apply to two-family and multiple-family
dwellings where there is a total of three (3) or more attached units of any type
within the overall project. This includes, but is not limited to, condominium projects,
townhomes, twin homes, and garden apartments, and duplexes located within any
development, subdivision or project within the city, hereafter collectively referred
to as multiple-family projects.
B. The requirements of this chapter are intended to apply to two- family and
multiple-family dwellings in addition to all other applicable regulations and the
requirements of this chapter shall not be construed to prohibit or limit other
applicable provisions of this title, this code and other laws. In the event of a conflict
between the provisions of this chapter and any other provisions of this title, this
code or other law, the more restrictive regulation shall apply.

9-32-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
All two-family and multiple-family projects subject to the terms and conditions of
this chapter, as set forth in section 9-32-020 of this chapter, shall comply with the
following development standards:
A. Unit Differentiation: Multiple-family projects shall include design features that
differentiate adjoining units and create identity for each unit. This goal shall be
achieved through the following requirements:
       1. Multiple-family projects shall include a variety of unit sizes.
       2. Multiple-family projects shall include a variety of building heights.
              a. Long, continuous Continuous rooflines greater than fifty feet (50')
              in length shall not be permitted.
              b. To encourage height variation, multi-family structures shall be
              allowed to exceed the maximum height of thirty-five feet (35’) by five
              additional feet (35' x 5') for no more than up to fifty percent (50%) of
              the project buildings, subject to subsection A(2)(c) of this section.
              c. In no event shall multiple family structures adjacent to a less
              intense land use exceed thirty five feet (35') within one hundred feet
              (100') of the property boundary line.
       3. The front facade of multiple-family structures shall exhibit visual relief
       through an array of architectural features and varied individual unit setbacks.
              a. Articulation such as roof dormers, hips, gables, balconies, porches,
              wall projections, and fenestration shall be used to break up the visual
              massing of building facades.
       4. Multiple-family projects shall include a variety of building colors and
       materials.
              a. Color utilization should be sensitive to existing development within
              the vicinity and the natural landscape in which the project is situated.
              b. A The use of a minimum of three (3) colors per elevation is
              preferredrequired.

             c. Multiple-family project proposals shall submit colored architectural
             elevations or renderings displaying and identifying a sample board
             containing examples of all exterior surfacing materials and colors,
              including roofing material and color, in accordance with subsection 9-
              5-090(D)(1)(d) of this title.
      5. Multiple-family projects on five (5) or more acres shall incorporate
      variations of the following architectural elements:
              a. Accent building materials;
              b. Door frames;
              c. Garage doors;
              d. Number of stories;
              e. Rooflines;
              f. Window frames; and
              g. Window types.
      6. Multiple-family dwelling units, tTownhouse style, multiple-family projects
      that are attached horizontally shall not exceed six (6) attached units in
      alignment per building.
      7. Exposed foundation walls shall not exceed four feet (4') above finished
      grade at any point.
B. Design: Multiple-family projects shall exhibit exceptional design qualities that
support the expectations of Draper City residents. This goal shall be achieved
through the following requirements:
      1. All exposed sides of multiple-family structures shall have framed
      windows.
      2. Side and rear elevations that are visible from public and private streets
      shall match the architectural detailing of the front facade.
      3. Building materials for multiple-family structures shall consist of at least
      fifty percent (50%) brick, stone, or synthetic stone on all sides of the
      structure.
              a. The planning commission may grant a deviation from this clause to
              allow accumulation or clustering of brick, stone, or synthetic stone on
              the most publicly visible sides of the structure. This deviation is
              dependent on compliance with the following standards:
                     (1) The use of brick, stone, or synthetic stone is equal to a gross
                     calculation of square footage of fifty percent (50%) or more of all
                     structure sides.
                     (2) Structure design meets subsection B(2) of this section.
              b. Windows, doors, and roof materials are excluded from the gross
              calculation of exterior building materials.
              c. The planning commission may also grant a deviation from this
              clause if a predominant building material exists in the project vicinity
              and the use of the material will uphold the existing character and style
              of the given neighborhood. The project developer may present the
              proposed building material (and color) to the planning commission to
              substantiate the quality and durability of the proposed dominant
              material.
       4. Street oriented living spaces in townhome style multi-family projects shall
       protrude beyond the garage door by at least five feet (5').
       54. Shared entrances for multiple-family structures shall be centrally
       located, accentuated with architectural detailing, and well lit.
       65. Utility and mechanical equipment extending from multiple- family
       structures shall be clustered and screened by compatible architectural
       materials or appropriate vegetation. When the project architecture contains
       pitched roofs, the roof mounted utility equipment shall be situated on the
       back side of the roof pitch.
       76. Carports and garages shall complement the project architecture in
       terms of design, materials, and colors.
       87. Garage doors shall exhibit quality design and color variation throughout
       the project.
       98. Where a desirable predominate architectural theme/style exists or
       where design guidelines are established through a master plan, the
       proposed multiple-family project shall be designed with a compatible
       theme/style to the aforementioned precedent.
C. Building Placement And Orientation: Multiple-family projects shall have a strong
relationship to the public realm that will enhance the safety and efficiency of the
project while improving the character of the neighborhood.
       1. All multiple-family structures shall front onto a right-of-way that is
       accessible to emergency vehicles.
              a. The planning commission may grant an exception from this clause,
              for multiple-family structures accessed by a private right-of-way if the
              following findings can be met:
                     (1) Multiple-family structures front onto an open space
                     (courtyard/park) that is determined to provide a substantial
                     number of public amenities and is accessible to all residents.
                     (2) Emergency vehicle access is accommodated for all
                     structures.
              b. Standard emergency vehicle access is accommodated for all
              structures.
2. Setbacks for multiple-family structures shall be within the range of five
feet (5') to twenty feet (20') for living spaces and twenty feet (20') for garages
as measured from the closest portion of the wall or foundation of the
structure to the nearest property line or edge of the public or private right-
of-way (ROW) excluding sidewalks. The edge of the public or private right of
way can be defined as the back of the sidewalk and the setback is measured
from the building facade. Horizontal variation in setback between units shall
be required.
       a. Setbacks should be established relative to existing setbacks in the
       vicinity. For multiple-family dwelling structures that are three (3)
       stories or less in height setbacks from the right-of-way shall range
       between five feet (5’) and twenty feet (20’).
       b. For projects with garages, the garage door shall be set back at least
       twenty feet (20') from the ROW or alley and shall include a driveway
       with a depth of at least twenty feet (20') excluding sidewalks.
            For multiple-family dwelling structures that are over three (3)
       stories in height, or those that are located adjacent to an existing or
       proposed collector street as shown on the Draper City master
       transportation plan, the setbacks from the right-of-way shall range
       between fifteen feet (15’) and thirty feet (30’)
       c. The setback range shall be fifteen feet (15') to thirty feet (30') from
       the ROW when:
               (1) The proposed structure is three (3) or more stories.
               (2) The project is adjacent to an existing or proposed collector
               street as shown on the master transportation plan.
            For projects with garages, the garage shall be set back at least
       twenty feet (20') from the right-of-way or alley and shall include a
       driveway with a depth of at least twenty feet (20'), excluding sidewalks.
       d. Setbacks between dwelling structures shall be no less than fifteen
       feet (15’).
       e. Except for property lines which divide attached units, setbacks from
       other property lines shall be no less than ten feet (10’). Multiple-family
       residential projects shall also comply with the perimeter landscaping
       requirements of section 9-23-090 and land use buffer requirements of
       section 9-23-110.
       d.f. Development on corner lots shall considercomply with the
       provisions of subsection 9-27-080(C) of this title in which the sightline
       clear view at an intersection shall not be obstructed.
3. Multiple-family projects with frontage on a public street shall orient units
toward the public street.
      a. Multiple-family projects shall promote an active street frontage on
      all public streets. The creation of a second frontage road or courtyard
      area on along the street frontage, in to which units may be oriented
      toward, can also be is an acceptable option for projects located on
      with frontage along classified roads.
      b. Carports shall be are prohibited adjacent to the a public right-of-
      way.
4. Fencing for multiple-family projects shall be limited to encourage shared
open space, pedestrian access, and project integration into the surrounding
neighborhood.
      a. Private fencing Fencing shall only be permitted when extending
      directly from the rear of a unit and abutting the back yard of another
      unit (for townhouse developments) or as a buffer to adjacent land
      uses as a buffer between adjacent land uses, or as private fencing for
      townhome style developments to delineate a private or limited
      common area at the rear of a unit.
      b. Fencing along any public streets shall be prohibitedlimited to a
      four foot (4’) tall decorative fence in compliance with the clear view
      restrictions for driveways and intersections as found in Section 9-27-
      080 of this title.
             (1) In the event that the planning commission determines a
             fence to be necessary due to site specifics, fencing shall be open
             and provide pedestrian access breaks every one hundred feet
             (100'). The Planning Commission may grant a deviation from this
             requirement upon finding all of the following:
                     (a) The fence is necessary to address health or safety
                     concerns of residents due to the existing constraints of
                     the site; and
                     (b) The fencing is open in its design and provides
                     pedestrian access breaks at multiple locations in the
                     fence at intervals that do not exceed one-hundred feet
                     (100’) between them.
      c. Fencing shall consist of quality design and material. Fencing used
      as a buffer between adjacent land uses shall comply with the
      specifications of Section 9-23-110 of this title.
        5. Resident parking accommodations are encouraged to be located behind
        multiple-family structures. This includes rear loaded garages with alleyways,
        auto courtyards and parking lots.
                a. Alley accessways shall be a minimum of twenty six feet (26') wide
                and shall comply with all fire code International Fire Code and other
                width standards of this title for width and design as may be required in
                the fire code adopted by the State of Utah and/or Draper City.
        6. Required guest visitor parking shall be evenly distributed throughout
        multiple-family projects and easily accessible.
        7. Driveway and garage parking shall not be included in the development’s
        guest multiple-family project’s visitor parking count requirement.
        8. On street parking, parallel or diagonal, is encouraged to be provided on
        private streets as a substantial portion of the project's parking requirement.
        This is meant to create flexible flexibility in the available parking spaces for
        units in which residents and visitorsmay have more or less vehicles than
        what is required for each unit.
        9. Landscaping strips between tire lines in the middle of driveways (between
        tire lines) should may be used to break up expanses of impervious surface.
        10. Parking areas shall be broken into smaller parking clusters of twelve (12)
        spaces or less, using landscaping and pedestrian pathways.
D. Site Plan, Mobility, And Street Treatment: Pedestrian and automobile circulation
shall flow in a logical manner and integrate with neighborhood street connectivity.
        1. A traffic impact study shall be prepared for multiple-family projects on
        five (5) or more acres, or where required by the planning commissionthe city
        engineer under the provisions of title 11.
        2. The number of road connections and access points for a multiple-family
        project shall comply with the following design standards and number of
        access points:
                a. Two-family units and tTownhome unit development:
                       (1) One access point is required for up to thirty (30) units.
                       (2) Two (2) access points are required for up to thirty-one (31)
                       units developments over thirty (30) units.
                b. Multi-family unit developments, other than townhome unit
                dwellings:
                       (1) One access point is required for projects with up to one-
                       hundred (100) dwelling units.
                       (2) Two (2) access points are required for projects with more
                       than one-hundred and one (101100) or more dwelling units.
       c. Multiple-family projects shall connect to existing public street
       networks or stubs. Connection to a private street network or stub is
       encouraged and shall include a perpetual cross access easement.
       Connection to a private street network or stub shall count as an access
       point if it allows for unrestricted access to the public and residents.
       d. Projects should strive to emulate the existing neighborhood street
       grid to provide more opportunities for street connectivity to adjacent
       properties.
3. Traffic calming measures such as lateral shifts, raised crosswalks, bulb
outs, or chicanes shall be incorporated into multiple-family projects where
appropriate.
4. Multiple-family projects shall install sidewalks on both sides of all private
streets. Sidewalks shall be a width of no less than fourfive feet (4'5’). The
planning commission may modify the requirement for sidewalks on both
sides of a private street by eliminating the sidewalk or a portion of the
sidewalk on one side of the street upon a finding that: a) the second sidewalk
or portion of the sidewalk does not facilitate pedestrian connectivity; b)
ample pedestrian circulation has been provided and is otherwise satisfied;
and c) the purpose and intent of the development standards set forth in this
chapter are met. The granting of this modification shall be within the
planning commission's discretion and is intended to be utilized in limited
circumstances where design and site layout adequately provide pedestrian
circulation within the project and the second sidewalk or portion thereof is
unnecessary and/or undesirable.
        a. The planning commission may permit a deviation from the
       requirement for sidewalks on both sides of a private street by
       eliminating the sidewalk or a portion of the sidewalk on one side of the
       street upon finding all of the following:
            (1) The second sidewalk or portion of the sidewalk does not
            provide pedestrian connectivity to any units or amenities;
            (2) Ample pedestrian circulation has been provided;
            (3) The purpose and intent of the development standards set
            forth in this chapter are met; and
            (4) The second sidewalk or portion thereof is unnecessary
            and/or undesirable.
5. Private streets within multiple-family projects are encouraged to emulate
public street standard elements such as:
       a. On street parallel parking.;
             b.   High back curb and gutter.;
             c.   Park strips with street trees and cutback parking.; and
             d.   Bike paths.

       6. Pedestrian pathways shall be provided between access points, entryways,
       public gathering nodes, and parking areas. Pedestrian access points should
       shall be installed between the project and the external neighborhood.
       7. All multiple-family projects shall submit a lighting plan in compliance with
       chapter 20, “Outdoor Lighting” of this title that illustrates lighting
       accommodation for automobile and pedestrian networks.
              a. Exterior lighting along private streets shall be pedestrian in scale
              with a limited to a maximum height of fourteen feet (14').
              b. Low level bollard lighting is encouraged for illumination of internal
              pedestrian pathways. Lighting along public streets shall also comply
              with public street lighting requirements of title 11.
       8. All multiple-family projects shall submit a landscaping plan in accordance
       with chapter 23, "Landscaping And Screening", of this title.
              a. Landscaping shall be used as a land use buffer where appropriate.
              b. Detention basins shall be adequately landscaped and maintained.
              c. Drought tolerant landscaping is highly encouraged.
E. Common Open Space: No less than thirty percent (30%) of the gross project
area, shall be designated for open space uses. Applicants for multiple-family
projects shall submit an intent statement outlining a theme for the type of quality
open space that the project will provide. The open space theme shall be consistent
with the following classifications:
       1. Natural Open Space (Passive Space): In accordance with chapter 24,
       "Natural Resources Inventory", of this title, applicants for multiple-family
       projects should survey sensitive and valued natural lands that may be
       desired for preservation. If this survey reveals a significant portion of natural
       open space that is suitable for preservation, this open space option is
       preferred.
       2. Improved Clusters: Improved clusters of open space with
       landscaping/amenities. This type of open space is large enough in area to be
       functional for a variety of uses by residents. The accumulation of green
       spaces can function like recreation areas by encompassing required project
       amenities. This type of green space is preferred to a myriad of remnant
       green patches throughout the project. This option is more appropriate for
       apartment style developments.
      3. Visual Relief: Visual relief from the street through open space. This theme
      includes setbacks (sometimes called front yards), open side yards, and park
      strips along the street. This type of open space is meant to give some spatial
      relief between the buildings and the street through landscaped front yards
      and park strips that are standard for most residential neighborhoods. This
      open space theme is more appropriate for townhouse type developments
      where units have frontage onto the street.
      4. Standards: The following standards shall apply to all themes:
              a. Open space areas shall be available to everyone residing in the
              boundaries of a development.
              b. Open space may include pathways and outdoor amenities.
              c. Open space excludes private balconies, decks, patio areas,
              recreation buildings, indoor amenities, vehicle parking, streets and
              streetscape sidewalks.
              d. No more than thirty percent (30%) of a development's slope areas
              in excess of thirty percent (30%) can be included in the area calculation
              for open space; provided, that appropriate amenities making it
              accessible and usable are included in the project.
              e. Open space should be centrally located and based on existing
              natural features.
              f. Open space should be clustered to create the most beneficial and
              efficient use of space.
F. Amenities: Centrally located Recreational amenities shall be provided for
multiple-family projects.
      1. Projects of fewer than Multiple-family projects of up to fifty (50) dwelling
      units shall provide at least one amenity from the following list an amenities
      package appropriate for the project size and location. Multiple-family
      projects over fifty (50) dwelling units shall provide one additional amenity
      from the list for each additional fifty (50) dwelling units in the project, or
      portion thereof.
              a. Multiple-family projects shall include at least one amenity per fifty
              (50) units from the following list:
                     (1) Tot lot/play structure.
                     (2) Community garden.
                     (3) Courtyard with benches.
                     (4) Picnic tables and barbecue area with shade structures.
                     (5) Swimming pool (indoor or outdoor), Splash pad, or Hot tub.
                     (6) Sports courts (i.e., tennis, basketball, volleyball).
                     (7) Natural open space area with benches/viewing areas and/or
                     trails.
                     (8) Other active or passive recreational areas that meet the
                     intent of this guideline.
      2. Projects of fifty-one (51) to one-hundred (100) dwelling units shall include
      one of the following amenities in addition to those required in subsection
      F(1)(a) of this section:
              a. A minimum of one insideindoor, centrally located, fully functional
              social area for gathering, no less than one-thousand (1,000) square
              feet in gathering space size, or a minimum of one outside outdoor
              social function area for gathering, no less than one-thousand (1,000)
              square feet in gathering space size. Social function areas shall be
              centrally located with respect to the overall development.
      3. Projects of more than one-hundred one (101100) or more dwelling units
      shall include the following both amenities described in subsection F(2)(a) of
      this section in addition to those required in subsection F(1)(a) of this section:.
              a. A minimum of one inside, centrally located, fully functional social
              area, no less than one thousand (1,000) square feet in gathering space
              and a minimum of one outside social function area, no less than one
              thousand (1,000) square feet in gathering space.

17-6-010: INFRASTRUCTURE DESIGN STANDARDS:

Standards for design, construction specifications, inspection of the street
improvements, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and standards for design, construction
specifications and inspection of water distribution systems, sewage disposal
facilities, storm drainage and flood control facilities shall be prepared by the city
engineer. Standards for parks and trails constructions shall meet the requirements
of the standards prepared by the public works director, and adopted by the city.
Standards for fire hydrants shall meet the requirements of any federal, state and
local governmental entities having jurisdiction over the same. All subdivision
standards and specifications and amendments thereto which are under the control
of the city shall be approved by the city council before becoming effective. The city
council may by resolution adopt subdivision standards and specifications for the
city which may be amended from time to time. All subdividers shall comply with any
subdivision standards and specifications adopted by the city council. All public
improvements shall be installed in accordance with the city's subdivision standards
and specifications, the requirements of the city engineer, the subdivision
improvements agreement between the subdivider and the city and all other
applicable city ordinances and regulations.

   A. Standards for design, construction specifications, inspection of the street
      improvements, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and standards for design,
      construction specifications and inspection of water distribution systems,
      sewage disposal facilities, storm drainage and flood control facilities shall be
      prepared by the city engineer. Standards for infrastructure improvements
      involving roadways shall also comply with Utah Code 10-9a-531 and Utah
      Code 10-9a-533, as amended.
   B. Standards for fire hydrants shall meet the requirements of any federal, state
      and local governmental entities having jurisdiction over the same.
