Draft minutes February 25, 2021
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION ELECTRONIC
MEETING HELD ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2021 IN THE DRAPER CITY
COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING
ELECTRONICALLY:           Chairperson Andrew Adams, Vice Chairman Craig Hawker
                          Commissioners Kent Player, Gary Ogden, John Van Hoff and Mary
                          Squire, Alternate Commissioners Lisa Fowler, DeLaina Tonks and
                          Tab Bingham

ABSENT:

STAFF PRESENT:            Jennifer Jastremsky, Brien Maxfield, Travis Van Ekelenburg, Jake
                          Sorensen and Amie Salazar

STAFF PRESENT
ELECTRONICALLY:           Mike Barker




The Agenda will be as follows:

6:30 PM Business Meeting

1. Electronic Meeting Notice
   • Listen through our website - https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
   • Email your comments to the project planner listed on the agenda item below by Noon on
      the day of the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
   • If you wish to speak during the Public Comment or Public Hearings portion of the
      meeting, please send a request for the Zoom Meeting ID to the project planner listed on
      the agenda item below by noon, on the day of the meeting.

2. WRITTEN DETERMINATION 2021-12 Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 52-4-207(4)
I, Chair Andrew Adams, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper
City Planning Commission with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and
safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City
Planning Commission to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.

The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
   • Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council,
       have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
   • COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations in Draper continue to fluctuate at high levels,
       both of which pose a risk of overburdening the local health care system and health
       care providers.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 25, 2021
Page 2
   • It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting
       and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with state and
       local health departments health orders.
   • COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and
       welfare of Draper City residents.
   • The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may
       hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public
       hearings.

3.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for January 28,
       2021 (Administrative Action)

Motion re: Commissioner Ogden made a motion to approve the Planning Commission meeting
minutes from January 28, 2021 with a revision on page five, paragraph three and Commissioner
Squire seconded the motion.

Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the motion.
This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.


4.     Public Hearing: City Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendments #1 (Legislative Item)
       This item has been continued to the March 25, 2021 planning commission meeting.
       On the request of Draper City for a Text Amendment to Title 9 of Draper City Municipal
       Code in order to amend general regulations pertaining to site plan reviews, addressing,
       appeals, land use buffers, on-street parking, compact parking spaces, lot and yard
       requirements, swimming pools, and home occupations. The application is known as the
       City Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendments #1. Application: TEXTMAP-0018-2021.
       Staff contact is Todd Draper, 801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Chairman Adams noted the public hearing has been continued to the March 25, 2021 meeting.


5.     Public Hearing: Christensen Office Building Ph. II Amended Site Plan Request
       (Administrative Action)
       On the request of LaVar Christensen, representing Draper Land Development, for an
       Amended Site Plan on 0.65 acres of property located at 11681 South 700 East within the
       CC zone. The request is to amend the buffer fence standards along the south property
       line. Application SPR-1126-2021. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
       jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov

Chairman Adams introduced the agenda item.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planner overviewed the staff report findings. She noted that the property is
located adjacent to the north city boundary off 7th East. The property has a land use designation
of Community Commercial and zoned Community Commercial. She explained the applicant
obtained an amended site plan for the phase two building in 2018 to build an office building on
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 25, 2021
Page 3
the property. She indicated there are two other properties that make up the Christensen Complex.
During the 2018 approval, there was a condition of approval for a landscape buffer adjacent to
residential property south of the parking lot. The condition of approval was for an eight-foot-
high masonry precast concrete, light weight precast fiber reinforced concrete or light weight steel
reinforce polyethylene plastic wall shall be installed along the North and South wall where the
property abuts residential zoning. The applicant is requesting a deviation from the planning
commission approval on the wall on the South property line. The eight-foot wall was installed
along the North property line. The applicant would like to install a hedge row in replacement of
the wall.

She indicated the code at the time of application predates the recent land use code amendments.
She overviewed the code that was in place at the time allowing for a deviation. The applicant is
requesting a ten-foot-wide landscape buffer with a hedge row that will grow to at least five feet
at maturity. She presented images of the property and indicated the shrubs for the hedge row
have been installed.

She overviewed staff proposed conditions of approval from the report. The condition requires
conformance with Draper City Code 9-23-110( C)(2), including seven additional trees that would
normally be planted in the buffer areas be planted elsewhere on the property. She mentioned that
the applicant is required to meet prior conditions of approval.

Commissioner Squire asked if the deviation to the wall is to a condition of approval that is part
of their code.

Jennifer Jastremsky commented the code requires a 20-foot landscape buffer with a six-foot wall.
The zoning administrator may approve a 10-foot buffer with an eight-foot wall. This is what was
approved in 2018.

Commissioner Van Hoff asked if the requirement for a wall is required even if the neighboring
property already has a fence on the property line.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that a wall is required and a lot of time the developer will work with the
neighbor to remove existing walls and replace them with the masonry wall. She overviewed the
wall types their code allows for.

Commissioner Van Hoff commented that it does not make sense that they would allow for the
eight-foot wall to be replaced with a five-foot hedge. He asked if staff has looked into this
wording.

Ms. Jastremsky mentioned that when the recent code changes went to the City Council, they
overviewed the Planning Commission’s concerns and the council asked staff to come back with
an amendment to remove this hedge row options. This site plan application predates those
changes.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 25, 2021
Page 4
Commissioner Player stated the objection that some of the residents had is having a visual
barrier. Five feet of hedge does not create a visual barrier. He believes the eight-foot wall would
be a better choice.

The applicant, LaVar Christensen stated that he is an attorney and has developed in Draper for
years. He indicated the automotive business to the north has been exempt from all regulations
and have over 20 abandoned vehicles on the property. He explained the work they had done to
match fences and to work with neighbors. He overviewed the code that was in place at the time
and mentioned they are in compliance. He believes that generally the landscaping alone would
have satisfied the requirement.

Chairman Adams asked if there were any questions of the applicant. There were none. He then
opened the public hearing.

John Roths at 743 E. Meadow Wood Drive stated that he agrees with the things the applicant
presented. He mentioned that he was concerned because Mr. Christensen’s land sloped away
from his lot. The parking lot increased the elevation and made vehicles visible from his ground
level patio. He wanted to see a taller fence for security and privacy. He does not know how long
it will take the hedge row to get established.

Larry Bloodworth indicated he is the closest neighbor to LaVar’s property. He mentioned LaVar
has done a great job and replaced his old fence. He mentioned that LaVar spoke with him before
installing the fence and they came to an agreement.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing. He asked for the photo of fence line along the homes
to be shown. He brought the applicant back up. He asked if John’s fence is lower in height.

Mr. Christensen stated that Mr. Roths had a smaller fence so he tried to bring the fence up to
match the other fences. The upgrade will bring Mr. Roths fence up to seven feet. He stated the
hedge will come into full vegetation soon.

Chairman Adams asked Jennifer to confirm the hedge row is at least five feet in height.

Ms. Jastremsky commented she has not seen in it full bloom but in doing research on the specific
species it appears it could grow up to six feet at full maturity. She stated that under the code they
are not at a six-foot fence compared to an eight-foot fence, rather replacing the fence with a
hedge row.

Mr. Christensen stated that the hedge row does not adversely affect the neighbors.

Chairman Adams indicated that going one foot less could affect the neighbors. He asked how the
hedge row is a better condition for the neighbors.

Mr. Christensen stated the hedge row keeps people further back from the neighbors.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 25, 2021
Page 5
Commissioner Squire stated that she is confused why the fencing and the hedge have already
been installed.

Mr. Christensen stated he downsized the building, and he did not know he had to receive
approval from the Planning Commission.

Commissioner Squire asked for the picture of the hedges to be presented. She asked if the
landscaping area is supposed to be at least ten feet.

Ms. Jastremsky confirmed that it is. She mentioned the angle of the photo may make it look
smaller than 10 feet. She mentioned that she did not measure but believes it is 10 feet.

Commissioner Van Hoff stated that the plants look at least six feet apart and people could walk
through them.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that the area will fill in as the plants grow.

Commissioner Squire stated that she is put off that a deviation is being requested on a condition
of approval. She mentioned another similar request and stated that they made the applicant put in
the required wall. She stated that this is a deviation that should not be granted.

Mike Barker, City Attorney asked for the conditions of approval to be stated. He stated that the
code is the standards of approval. He asked the commission to take these standards into
consideration. It is not a matter of preference but whether the applicant meets the code. He asked
that if there is a denial vote to please state where in the code the applicant is not in compliance.

Commissioner Squire noted that 2a states “Physical site features preclude strict compliance.” She
stated there is nothing that has been presented preventing strict compliance.

Commissioner Van Hoff stated the applicant was originally requesting the eight-foot fence and is
now requesting a five-foot hedge wall. He appreciates the applicant has worked with the
neighbors to match the walls. He stated the applicant is simply asking to change from one option
to another. This is what is in the code.

Commissioner Squire stated that they have to meet the criteria of the code. She feels there is
nothing that preclude meeting the standard of the code.

Chairman Adams mentioned the code requires additional beautification and he is not sure how
this is happening.

Ms. Jastremsky noted the applicant will be required to provide seven additional trees.

Chairman Adams stated he is not in favor of the hedge row.

Motion re: Commissioner Squire motioned to deny the amended site plan as requested by
LaVar Christensen, representing Draper Land Development for Christensen Office Building
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 25, 2021
Page 6
Phase Two, Application SPR-1126-2021 based on the findings listed in the staff report dated
February 16, 2021, and based on the failure to meet 2a as required in the code.

The motion failed due to lack of a second.

Motion re: Commissioner Van Hoff motioned to approve the amended site plan as requested
LaVar Christensen, representing Draper Land Development for Christensen Office Building
Phase Two, Application SPR-1126-2021 based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the staff report dated February 16, 2021 and as modified by the following: that the six-
foot vinyl fence is replaced with a seven-foot-high vinyl fence. Commissioner Hawker seconded
the motion.

Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners Hawker, Player, Ogden and VanHoff
voting in favor of the motion. Commissioner Squire voted in opposition to the motion. This item
passed with a 4 to 1 vote.

6.     Public Hearing:       Foret Floral Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
       (Administrative Action)
       On request of Lucia Foret approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit in the
       C-2 zone regarding a Home Occupation Business as a florist. The property is located at
       623 E Rockwell Vista. Application USE-0002-2021. Staff contact: Travis Van
       Ekelenburg, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov, 801-576-6522.

Mr. Van Ekelenburg, Planner II presented the staff report. He stated the property has a land use
designation of Residential Medium Density and is zoned C-2. The home occupation will not
have employees except for the home owner. She will put flower arrangements together. The
applicant will use their own vehicle for deliveries. He then showed a site plan of the property and
floor plan. He noted the business hours would be Monday through Friday, 9am-5pm. Only 200
square feet of the home will be utilized for the business. The maximum allowed is 250 square
feet. He mentioned the applicant will stay in line with the feel and character of the neighborhood
and staff believes it is in compliance with code.

Lucia Foret, applicant thanked the commission for considering her application. She mentioned
that she arranges flowers in her home and then delivers them to clients.

Commissioner Player mentioned the applicant has a good plan.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing. There were no comments. He closed the public
hearing and asked if there were comments from commissioners.

Motion re: Commissioner Van Hoff motioned to approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit as requested by Lucia Foret, Application USE-0002-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated February 16, 2021. Commissioner
Hawker seconded the motion.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 25, 2021
Page 7
Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners Hawker, Player, Ogden, Squire and
VanHoff voting in favor of the motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

7.     Public Hearing: Fort Street Office Site Plan Request (Administrative Action)
       On the request of Greg Kimball, for a Site Plan on 0.38 acres of property located at
       12587 South Fort St within the TC zone. The application is for a new office building.
       Application SPR-836-2019. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
       jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Ms. Jastremsky provided an overview of the staff report. She stated the property is located South
of city hall on Fort Street and 12600 South. The property is designated with a Town Center land
use and zoned Town Center. The applicant is requesting to build a two-story office building.
There is a home on the property the applicant would like to keep and may use the home for a
commercial use in the future. She indicated the Town Center zone is mixed use and allows for
commercial and residential uses on the same property. The office building is under 3,000 square
feet in size. Code requires 10-13 parking spaces which the applicant meets by providing 10
spaces. The code has a maximum setback of 15 feet and the applicant is proposing two to three
feet of setback. There is a courtyard provided which will be enclosed. The landscaping has trees
in the parking lot and on the North boundary. Shrubs will be located around the building. The
Town Center code requires existing trees above a four-inch caliper to be preserved or replaced
with an equal caliper basis. There is one tree that meets this requirement that will be kept.

She indicated the code requires a turn of the century architecture which the applicant does meet.
The building is 100% brick which is above the 80% requirement. The Historic Preservation
Commission reviewed this plan and recommended approval on November 18, 2019. They did
recommend the brick be authentic and not painted. The brick can be red, yellow or other natural
color to ensure the building meets the required style. This has been listed as a condition of
approval. She showed an image of the property and the existing home.

Commissioner Van Hoff asked about the setbacks.

Ms. Jastremsky indicated the Town Center has a maximum setback of 15 feet and allows
buildings to be constructed up to the property line.

Commissioner Squire asked if parking is required to be in front of the building.

Ms. Jastremsky noted parking is required to be to the rear or side of the building. She stated there
are a couple existing parallel parking spaces on the street that will remain.

Chairman Adams invited the applicant to speak.

Greg Kimball, owner of the property, stated the plan is permitted and he did not make any
deviations to the code. The architect ensured the building fits in well with the surrounding
buildings. He believes the site will be enhanced with proposed landscaping and mentioned he
worked closely with staff.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 25, 2021
Page 8
Chairman Adams asked if there were any questions for the applicant. He opened public
comment.

Sandra Culver, representing families on Fort Street, stated the proposed development will restrict
the neighborhood on 12600 South, between Fort Street and the farm. She indicated that
congestion from the building will impact traffic, affect parking, and invite crime. She mentioned
there is crime in the area. She believes traffic is already congested and mentioned several
businesses that contribute to this. She indicated it is dangerous due to visibility being impeded.
She believes tenants will have their parking impacted. The proposed building will be an eyesore
by blocking in the existing home. She noted there is a gaming trailer parked in lot. She explained
they have RVs that are hard to drive through the street. She recommended the speed limit be
reduced on Fort Street to 30 MPH between Pioneer and 12600 South, install a four-way traffic
light at Fort Street and 12600 South, or reject the project. She does not believe the code was
intended for this type of development and believes it stretches the spirit of Draper’s code. She
thanked the city regarding having Moda Peak install a fence around their property.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Squire stated she read the letter received on the project and understands their
frustrations. She does not see a deviation request in the application and does not see any basis for
denying the project.

Commissioner Ogden agreed with Commissioner Squire and believes the application is clean and
complies with the Town Center Code.

Commissioner Squire mentioned she would like someone to help with the request to reduce the
speed limit.

Mike commented that Scott Cooley with the traffic committee can look at this request.

Motion re: Commissioner Van Hoff motioned to approve the site plan application requested by
Greg Kimball for the Fort Street Office Site Plan, Application SPR-836-2019, based on the
finding and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated February 17, 2021. The
motion was seconded by Commissioner Ogden.

Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners Hawker, Player, Ogden, Squire and Van
Hoff voting in favor of the motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

8.     Public Hearing: Godfrey Subdivision Plat Amendment (Administrative Action)
       On request of Scott Godfrey approval of a Plat Amendment in the RA2 zone regarding
       the Godfrey Subdivision and amending Lots 2, 3, and 4. The property is located at 1661
       E 12435 S. Application SUBD-1079-2020. Staff Contact is Travis Van Ekelenburg, 801-
       576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov

Mr. Van Ekelenburg presented the staff report. He indicated this property is designated Low to
Medium Density in the land use map and is zoned RA2. He stated that the original Godfrey
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 25, 2021
Page 9
Subdivision was recorded in 2012. The applicant is requesting to increase the lot design from
four to five lots. He presented the proposed subdivision and stated that lot one would not change.
Access to the current subdivision has a hammer head and there is a 30-foot-wide private road.
The cul-de-sac has a 100-foot diameter. He mentioned the code requires private lanes to have a
width of 24 feet. The proposal exceeds this requirement. The lane will be owned and maintained
by the owners through CC&Rs. The lots all meet a minimum lot size of 20,000 square feet. He
presented an aerial image of the property.

Chairman Adams invited the applicant to speak.

Norm Dahl mentioned that Scott Godfrey would like to increase the number of lots and the
proposal meets city code.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing. No one spoke. He closed the public hearing.

Motion re: Commissioner Hawker motioned to approve the plat amendment as requested by
Scott Godfrey, Application SUBD 1079-2020, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the staff report dated February 16, 2021. Commissioner Player seconded the
motion.

Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners Hawker, Player, Ogden, Squire and
VanHoff voting in favor of the motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

Ms. Jastremsky stated the next meeting on March 11th will be canceled. The one item that had
been scheduled for that meeting was rescheduled to March 25, 2021.

Chairman Adams asked what needs to happen to remove the hedge row requirement.

Ms. Jastremsky indicated that on March 25 they will have a text amendment to remove the hedge
row.

9.     The meeting adjourned at 8:12 pm
