Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Mike Barker
CC:  Date: February 10, 2022
Re: Amendment of the Planning Commission Bylaws and Rules of Procedure Comments: Staff is seeking a recommendation to the city council for the proposed amendments to the Planning Commission Bylaws and Rules of Procedure (“Bylaws”).  LUDMA requires the Planning Commission to conduct its meetings according to approved rules or order and procedure.  The current Bylaws were adopted in 2009.  There have been a couple minor amendments since then.  The purpose of amending the Bylaws is to give them a comprehensive review to make sure they reflect current state law and city code requirement and reflect the current operations of the Planning Commission.
The proposed amendments seek to clarify and simplify the Bylaws by updating the language, eliminating redundancies, and making the Bylaws reflect how the Planning Commission conducts its meetings. The findings are as follows: For a positive recommendation:  the proposed amended Bylaws comply with state law and the city code, clarify procedures the Planning Commission must follow in conducting its meetings, and clarify and simplify the Bylaws.
Motions:
Sample Motion for Approval :
I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the amendments to the Planning Commission Bylaws and Rules of Procedures as proposed by staff, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the agenda memo for this agenda item.
Sample Motion for Modified Approval:
I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the amendments to the Planning Commission Bylaws and Rules of Procedures as proposed by staff, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the agenda memo for this agenda item. and as modified by the findings and conditions below:
1. List any additional findings and conditions… ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Bylaws- Amendment CLEAN COPY 2/2/2022 Cover Memo PC Bylaws- Amendment REDLINE COPY 2/2/2022 Cover Memo