Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jonathan Concidine
CC: Jennifer Jastremsky Date: October 13, 2022
Re: Corner Canyon Quilting, LLC - Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for approximately 0.33 acres located on the west side of Bridgewood Lane, at 12657 Bridgewood Lane. The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for the operation of a home quilting business. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.
2. The proposed use is harmonious with the objectives and requirements of
the city's general plan and this title;
3. The specific property is appropriate for the proposed use;
4. The proposed use or facility is unlikely to be injurious to potential or
existing development in the vicinity;
5. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
area is beneficial;
6. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
area is negligible;
7. The utilities, transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space,
lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and
pedestrian and vehicular circulation are adequate;
8. Noxious or offensive emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and
odor from the proposed facility or use are unlikely; and
9. The health, safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning
or leasing property in the area will be unaffected.
For denial:
1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use
to alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.
2. The proposed use is not harmonious with the objectives and requirements
of the city's general plan and this title;
3. The specific property is inappropriate for the proposed use;
4. The proposed use or facility is likely to be injurious to potential or existing
development in the vicinity;
5. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
area is negative;
6. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
area is negative;
7. The utilities, transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space,
lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and
pedestrian and vehicular circulation are inadequate;
8. Noxious or offensive emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and
odor from the proposed facility or use are likely; and
9. The health, safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning
or leasing property in the area will be negatively affected. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 10/5/2022 Cover Memo