                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, Utah 84020



                                           STAFF REPORT
                                            June 14, 2022

To:                      Draper City Planning Commission
                         Business Date: June 23, 2022

From:                    Development Review Committee

Prepared By:             Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                         Planning Division
                         Community Development Department
                         (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov



Re:       JUSTIN HOHL OFFICE BUILDING — SITE PLAN REQUEST
          Application No.: SPR-044-2021
          Applicant:        Keith Hansen of aeurbia, representing Justin Hohl, property owner
          Project Location: Approximately 11488 S. State Street
          Current Zoning: CC (Community Commercial) Zone
          Acreage:          Approximately 2.36 acres (approximately 102,801.6 square feet)
          Request:          Request approval of a site plan for the purpose of constructing a
                            new office and retail building, with three deviations: 1) increased
                            building height, 2) tree diamonds in parking lot area, and 3)
                            reduction in landscaping and rooftop landscaping to meet
                            minimum requirements in CC zoning district.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a site plan for approximately 2.36 acres located
on the west side of State Street, at approximately 11488 S. State Street (Exhibits B and C).
The property is currently zoned CC. The applicant is requesting that a site plan be
approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site as an office building
with some retail. The site is vacant at this time.


Justin Hohl Office Building                                             App. # SPR-044-2021
Site Plan                                         1
The application for the site plan was submitted on March 29, 2021. In November of 2021,
the a notice of intent to modify the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) to no longer allow
height deviations was sent out. Because this application was submitted and accepted
before the code was changed, it is vested under the previous code so they can continue to
request the height deviation.



ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Community
Commercial land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit D). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the CC zoning classification (Exhibit E). DCMC Section 9-8-
020(C)(2) states the purpose of the zone is to: “provide areas where commercial uses may
be established which are generally oriented toward local residents rather than out-of-town
patrons.” The property is bordered by CI (Interchange Commercial) on the north, CR

Justin Hohl Office Building                                         App. # SPR-044-2021
Site Plan                                    2
(Regional Commercial) to the east across State Street, and CC zoning to the south.
Interstate 15 borders the property on the west.

Site Plan Layout. The proposed building will be located towards the north side of the
property with parking along all four sides of the building (Exhibit F). There is a cross access
easement with the property located to the north and some of the parking will be accessed
from that property to the north. The site has a higher elevation along State Street and
slopes down to the west towards the I-15 exit ramp. A loading dock for deliveries and
customers to pick up large merchandise from the retail user is located at the rear or west
side of the building. Because the access to the site is from State Street and that street is
under the control of the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT), the applicant has
worked with UDOT and designed an access drive into the property that satisfies all
requirements of UDOT. The applicant has also obtained a right-of-way permit from UDOT.
As the site will be having occasional deliveries for the retail component of the project, a
wider driveway was required to access the site.

Parking. As noted, the parking is located along all four sides of the proposed building and
all of the parking will be surface parking (Exhibit F). There is no structured or underground
parking provided. The building is primarily an office building with one retail user on the
ground floor. The office portion of the project is 27,252 square feet and requires 110
parking stalls. The retail component along with its associated storage is 15,825 square feet
and requires 40 parking stalls. The total amount of parking required is 150 parking stalls
and the applicant has provided 159 parking stalls. The site does meet all minimum parking
requirements. The DCMC requires that a minimum of 7% of the parking area is landscaped
and the applicant has shown a total of 7.11% of the parking lot area landscaped and
therefore meets this requirement of the DCMC.

The loading dock proposed has been shown at the rear or the west side of the building. It
is anticipated that deliveries will be minimal and will be for the retail component of the
project. The applicant has adequate maneuvering for the delivery trucks and for all
emergency vehicles that may need to respond to the site.

Parking Row Dividing Landscaped Strip Deviation. The parking area adjacent to State Street
shows four tree diamonds instead of the required parking row dividing landscaped strip.
The applicant has submitted a request for a deviation for the tree diamonds noting that
constraints of the site with truck access and maneuvering necessitate the modification to
tree diamonds. The applicants request can be found in Exhibit J.

DCMC Section 9-25-080(H)(2)(a) requires that parking row dividing landscaping is included
with each plan unless the Planning Commission finds that it is not feasible and parking tree
diamonds can then be authorized. The Planning Commission must find that:

(1)       The site requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce parking; or

Justin Hohl Office Building                                             App. # SPR-044-2021
Site Plan                                       3
(2)       The site would require a deviation from strict compliance to reduce parking in order
          to implement such landscaping; and
(3)       Constraints of the site would necessitate the elimination of required parking spaces
          or reduction of site boundary landscaping buffers in order to facilitate such
          landscaping.

It should be noted that the findings above related to a reduction in parking and the
applicant has provided excess parking at this time. The site is not deficient in parking.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. The landscape plan (Exhibit G) shows landscaping around
the perimeter of the site with some shrubs and a few trees adjacent to the building. There
are landscaped islands throughout most of the parking lot, but the applicant has shown
four tree diamonds in the parking area adjacent to State Street as discussed in the parking
section above.

Commercial sites must have a minimum of 20% of the site landscaped and this project
proposes to have just under 20% of the site to be landscaped with a total of 19.88%.
Because of the configuration of the parking area with the walkways with hardscape around
the building, a portion of the required 20% of landscaping will be located on a rooftop
garden. Rooftop gardens are not addressed in the DCMC. Therefore, the applicant has
requested a deviation to allow less than 20% on the ground level, or adjacent to the
building on the site. The request for that deviation will be discussed below.

Landscaping Modification. Chapter 9-23 of the DCMC makes provisions for the Planning
Commission to authorize a deviation to the strict compliance with the terms of the Code
regarding landscaping requirements. DCMC Section 9-23-030 states that development
constraints can vary greatly among sites and therefore the Planning Commission may
approve landscaping plans that deviate from the landscaping requirements of the DCMC
based on making certain required findings in whole. Those findings, according to DCMC
Section 9-23-030(B), are that the deviation:

1.        Is consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan or
          ordinance;
2.        Reflects a design that conforms to the requirements of this chapter to the greatest
          extent possible and offers alternative methods for addressing the landscape
          requirement for which a deviation is being requested. Alternative methods may
          include additional fencing, berming and plant material than what would otherwise
          be required;
3.        Will not adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents;
4.        Will not adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public safety;
5.        Is justified by site constraints; and
6.        Is of high quality and integrates aesthetically with the design of the primary
          buildings on site and established streetscape.

Justin Hohl Office Building                                            App. # SPR-044-2021
Site Plan                                       4
As noted, the applicant is just under the minimum required of 20% (19.88% proposed). The
applicant’s plans note that approximately 15,962 (or approximately 15.5%) of the ground
level of the site will be landscaping (including the parking areas). The remaining
approximately 4.38% of landscaping will be located on the rooftop garden. While the
current code does not prohibit or have standards for a rooftop garden, staff felt that the
Planning Commission should be aware that a portion of the landscaping will not be
adjacent to the building. The applicant has stated that the reduced amount of landscaping
adjacent to the building and consideration of the rooftop garden is needed due to site
constraints. The applicant’s request in Exhibit J does state that the rooftop garden will be
available to the whole building.

Architecture. The elevations of the building (Exhibit H) show a modern designed building
with a flat roof element. The proposed exterior materials of the building do meet all
requirements of the code and are predominantly covered with primary materials including
brick, architectural concrete and fiber cement siding and panels. Below is a breakdown of
each elevation:

              Elevation                    Primary                        Secondary
 North                                       81%                             19%
 East                                       100%                             0%
 South                                       88%                             12%
 West                                        85%                             15%

Each building face is required to have a minimum of 75% of primary materials with a
minimum of two materials per side and a minimum of three colors per side. All four sides
of the building do meet this requirement.

The building does step down towards the west along the natural slope of the site. The bulk
or larger portion of the building will be along State Street. The building is proposed to be
three stories tall for approximately 2/3rds of the length of the building. The building then
drops of a lower height that is approximately 1½ stories tall. Because the existing slope of
the site drops from south to north, the applicant has designed a building based with a
consistent flat roof element, but the maximum height allowed of 45 feet will be exceeded
for the three story portion of the building and they have therefore requested a height
deviation for the building as described below. As noted above, height deviations can no
longer be requested by applicants, but this project was submitted before the recent notice
of intent to change to the code.

Along the east side of the building or the side facing State Street, the building is
approximately 55 feet tall. However as noted above, the site slopes downwards towards
the west and the highest point of the building will be approximately 62 feet tall. The
building ranges from 55 feet tall at the front adjacent to State Street to 34 feet at the rear.

Justin Hohl Office Building                                             App. # SPR-044-2021
Site Plan                                      5
To the west of this maximum height, the design of the building is lower and complies with
the maximum of 45 feet. The area surrounding the building is all zoned commercial so
there will be little to no impact to residential properties. The applicant’s request for a
height deviation notes that the additional height is needed for sufficient ceiling height for
the market.

Increased Height Limits Deviation. DCMC Section 9-22-030 allows the Planning
Commission to authorize a deviation for greater building height based on the standards
found in the DCMC. Per DCMC Section 9-22-030(B), the Planning Commission shall find
that the application meets the three of the following criteria:

1.        The proposed development includes additional amenities or pedestrian and
          bike connectivity in excess of what is otherwise required.
2.        The overall landscape and open space area provided within the proposed
          development exceeds required amounts by more than ten percent (10%).
3.        The proposed development is a transit oriented development (TOD) and provides
          direct connectivity for active transportation methods to a transportation facility.
4.        The traffic impacts of the proposed development will be mitigated through creative
          design, traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit pass programs, or
          other similar measures.
5.        The proposed development is designed to meet LEED certification standards.
6.        The proposed development involves redeveloped buildings, additions to existing
          buildings, minor structures being added to a site, or is a new building within a
          previously approved phased development and the deviation is necessary to create a
          consistency with other existing buildings.
7.        Vegetative landscaping (excluding lawn, turf, and groundcovers) exceeds the
          amounts required in this Title by at least ten percent (10%).
8.        The building is designed by a licensed architect in a specific architectural style,
          that utilizes facade materials differently than prescribed in subsection 9-22-
          040(F) of this chapter.
9.        The amount of primary materials used for each building facade exceeds the
          required amount by more than ten percent (10%).

The applicant’s request for the height deviation found in Exhibit J notes that the project
meets the criteria for items 1, 8 and 9 and that the deviation for additional height should
be approved.

Staff has reviewed the applicant’s request and provides the following analysis.
    - The applicant has provided a required pedestrian connection to the sidewalk on
       State Street, but that is the only pedestrian connection provided and there appears
       to be no bike rack or bike connectivity proposed.
    - The project does meet the minimum requirements of Section 9-22-040(F) and there
       are not different design materials utilized.

Justin Hohl Office Building                                           App. # SPR-044-2021
Site Plan                                      6
     -    The elevations do exceed the minimum of primary materials, but one of the three
          facades is not exceeded by 10%.

Lighting. The applicant has provided a photometric plan that complies with the Chapter 20
of the DCMC. Light poles have a maximum height of 20 feet as allowed by the code and
the illumination standards comply with Tables 9-20-1 and 9-20-2.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a Site Plan request is found in Sections 9-5-
090(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

E.        Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site
          plan:
          1.    The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development
                plan is approved.
          2.    A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title,
                including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points,
                parking, landscaping, and building materials.
          3.    The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
                the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is
                located.
          4.    The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the
                subject development, as required by engineering standards and
                specifications.
          5.    The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards
                found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm
                water drainage, and utilities concerns.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the site plan and minor subdivision submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the site plan and minor subdivision submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their review of the site plan and minor subdivision
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.




Justin Hohl Office Building                                            App. # SPR-044-2021
Site Plan                                       7
Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the site plan
and minor subdivision submission. Comments from the Fire Marshal, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC and Simon
Associates LLC., in working with the Draper City Building and Engineering Divisions, have
has completed their review of the site plan and minor subdivision submission. Comments
from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

1.        That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
          Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
          and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
2.        That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
          development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
3.        Stormwater Maintenance Plan and Agreement are now required for every private
          storm drainage system, per DCMC 16-2-170. Submission of the maintenance plan is
          now required prior to site approval. The maintenance agreement is a condition of
          approval; it is required to be recorded and returned to the city prior to issuance of
          the Land Disturbance Permit for construction of the site
4.        All proposed retaining walls shall comply with DCMC Section 9-27-085 including
          height, separation and plantings.
5.        Provide adjacent property owner’s permission to construct improvements offsite.
          This approval shall be submitted prior to issuance of the Land Disturbance Permit.
6.        Updated landscaping plan shall be submitted which accurately reflects amounts of
          landscaping and site layout prior to building permit submittal.

Deviation Request from DCMC Section 9-25-080 – Parking Row Dividing Landscaping
The applicant has stated the deviation request will comply with DCMC Section 9-25-
080(H)(2)(a).




Justin Hohl Office Building                                             App. # SPR-044-2021
Site Plan                                       8
The findings for approval are as follows:

1.        The site requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce parking; or
2.        The site would requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce parking in
          order to implement such landscaping; and
3.        Constraints of the site would necessitate the elimination of required parking spaces
          or reduction of site boundary landscaping buffers in order to facilitate such
          landscaping.

The finding for denial is as follows:

1.        The applicant has not demonstrated to the Planning Commission that they comply
          with the deviation the standards set in the DCMC Section 9-25-080(H)(2)(a).

Deviation Request from DCMC Section 9-23-030 – Landscaping Modification
The findings for approval are as follows:

1.        Is consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan or
          ordinance;
2.        Reflects a design that conforms to the requirements of this chapter to the greatest
          extent possible and offers alternative methods for addressing the landscape
          requirement for which a deviation is being requested. Alternative methods may
          include additional fencing, berming and plant material than what would otherwise
          be required;
3.        Will not adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents;
4.        Will not adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public safety;
5.        Is justified by site constraints; and
6.        Is of high quality and integrates aesthetically with the design of the primary
          buildings on site and established streetscape

The finding for denial is as follows:

1.        Is not justified by site constraints.

Deviation Request from DCMC Subsection 9-22-030 – Building Height Deviation
The findings for approval are as follows:

1.        The proposed development includes additional amenities or pedestrian and bike
          connectivity in excess of what is otherwise required.
2.        The building is designed by a licensed architect in a specific architectural style, that
          utilizes facade materials differently than prescribed in subsection 9-22-040(F) of this
          chapter.


Justin Hohl Office Building                                               App. # SPR-044-2021
Site Plan                                         9
3.        The amount of primary materials used for each building facade exceeds the
          required amount by more than ten percent (10%).

The finding for denial is as follows:

1.        The proposed development does not include additional amenities or pedestrian and
          bike connectivity in excess of what is otherwise required.
2.        The building is designed by a licensed architect in a specific architectural style, but
          does not utilize facade materials differently than prescribed in subsection 9-22-
          040(F) of this chapter.

Site Plan
The findings for approval for the site plan are as follows:

1.        The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
          approved.
2.        A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but
          not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
          building materials.
3.        The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
          general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4.        The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
          development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5.        The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in
          Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and
          utilities concerns.

The findings for denial of the site plan are as follows:

1.        The proposed site plan does not conform to all applicable standards set forth in this
          title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking,
          landscaping, and building materials.
2.        The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
          the general plan and the purpose of the CR zoning district in which the site is
          located.
3.        The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject
          development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
4.        The proposed development plans do not comply with the one or more of the
          engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including
          traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.




Justin Hohl Office Building                                                App. # SPR-044-2021
Site Plan                                         10
MODEL MOTIONS
Deviation Request for Parking Row Dividing Landscaping
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation for parking diamonds,
as requested by Keith Hansen of aeurbia, representing Justin Hohl, application SPR-044-
2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
June 14, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the deviation for parking
diamonds, as requested by Keith Hansen of aeurbia, representing Justin Hohl, application
SPR-044-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated June 14, 2022 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

1.        List any additional findings and conditions . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation for parking diamonds, as
requested by Keith Hansen of aeurbia, representing Justin Hohl, application SPR-044-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 14,
2022.

Deviation Request for Landscaping Modification
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation for landscaping
modification, as requested by Keith Hansen of aeurbia, representing Justin Hohl,
application SPR-044-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated June 14, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the deviation for
landscaping modification, as requested by Keith Hansen of aeurbia, representing Justin
Hohl, application SPR-044-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated June 14, 2022 and as modified by the findings and conditions
below:

1.        List any additional findings and conditions . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation for landscaping modification,
as requested by Keith Hansen of aeurbia, representing Justin Hohl, application SPR-044-
2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
June 14, 2022.

Deviation for Increased Height
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation request for increased
height, as requested by Keith Hansen of aeurbia, representing Justin Hohl, application SPR-
044-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated June 14, 2022.

Justin Hohl Office Building                                           App. # SPR-044-2021
Site Plan                                         11
Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the deviation request for
increased height, as requested by Keith Hansen of aeurbia, representing Justin Hohl,
application SPR-044-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated June 14, 2022 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

1.        List any additional findings and condition . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation request for increased height,
as requested by Keith Hansen of aeurbia, representing Justin Hohl, application SPR-044-
2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
June 14, 2022.

Site Plan
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the site plan, as requested by Keith
Hansen of aeurbia, representing Justin Hohl, application SPR-044-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 14, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the site, as requested by
Keith Hansen of aeurbia, representing Justin Hohl, application SPR-044-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 14, 2022 and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

1.        List any additional findings and condition . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the site plan, as requested by Keith
Hansen of aeurbia, representing Justin Hohl, application SPR-044-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 14, 2022.




Justin Hohl Office Building                                          App. # SPR-044-2021
Site Plan                                         12
               DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                   Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                  Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                   DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City,                               DN: C=US,

 Brien Maxfield    ou=PW - Engineering,
                   email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov,          Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                       E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                                                                                       O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City,

__________________________________                               __________________________________
                   c=US                                                                CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                   Date: 2022.06.15 16:00:50 -06'00'                                   Date: 2022.06.15 14:19:29-06'00'


Draper City Public Works Department                              Draper City Planning Division


                                                                                   Digitally signed by Mike Barker

 Don Buckley
                  Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                  DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,
                                                                 Mike Barker       Date: 2022.06.15 14:10:20

__________________________________                               __________________________________
                                                                                   -06'00'
                  O=Draper City Fire Department, OU=Fire
                  Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                  Date: 2022.06.15 14:51:57-06'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                      Draper City Legal Counsel


                  Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                  DN: C=US,

Keith Collier     E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov, O=Draper


__________________________________
                  City, OU=Building Official, CN=Keith Collier
                  Date: 2022.06.16 10:05:20-06'00'



Draper City Building Division
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
1.     Updated landscaping plan shall be submitted which accurately reflects amounts of
       landscaping and site layout prior to building permit submittal.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
1.     Stormwater Maintenance Plan received. The maintenance agreement will be a
       condition of approval; it is required to be recorded and returned to the city prior to
       issuance of the Land Disturbance Permit for construction of the site.
2.     Provide adjacent property owner’s permission to construct improvements offsite.
       Applicant has indicated that they are working with the adjacent owner’s engineer.
       However, no permission from adjacent owner was received with the fourth
       submittal.
3.     Retaining walls are to comply with DCMC 9-27-085. Retaining walls are not reviewed
       or approved with this review and approval process. This comment is informational
       and requires no action prior to site plan approval.
4.     Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
       construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division
       and is required prior to Building Permit issuance. This comment is informational
       and does not require any action prior to site plan approval.
5.     Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained
       through the Engineering Division. This comment is informational and does not
       require any action prior to site plan approval.

Fire Division Review.
1.     Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
       twenty-six (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of
       thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be required. The road must be designed
       and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The
       surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall
       have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a
       maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits
       being issued.
2.     Fire Hydrants are required. Hydrants are required for this project. They shall
       be protected with bollards if susceptible to vehicle damage. Each building
      needs 3 hydrants at least one on each corner. The required fire flow for each
      building is 2375gpm and this is after a 50% reduction for fire sprinklers.
3.    Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary
      Fire Department Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the
      Fire Department prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time
      during the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department
      Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.
4.    No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and
      testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any
      combustible elements being received or delivered on building site.
5.    Fire Department Connection Location. The FDC shall be on the street side of
      each building and shall be located and arranged so that hose lines can be
      readily and conveniently attached to the inlets without interference from any
      nearby objects including buildings, fences, posts, or other fire department
      connections.
6.    Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler shop
      drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at
      don.buckley@draperutah.gov. A complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut
      sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III
      or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. There needs to be a hydrants within 1000
      feet of the FDC. FDC is required to have KNOX Locking Caps. ALL FIRE
      PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE THIRD PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED
      TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
7.    Standpipes Required. These buildings will be required to have standpipes.
      This standpipe will be required to be pressure tested and a Contractor
      Certificate of Completion will be required to be filled out.
8.    Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to
      be sent via email to the following to: Don Buckley at
      don.buckley@draperutah.gov. A complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut
      sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III or
      better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE ALARM PLANS REQUIRE THIRD PARTY
      REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
9.    Emergency Responder Radio Coverage Required. Emergency responder
      radio coverage shall be provided in accordance with the IFC.
10.   Emergency Voice/Alarm Communication System May Be Required. An
      emergency voice/alarm communication system shall be provided in
      accordance with the IFC.
11.   Two-way communication will be Required. As per Section 1009.8 in the 2015 IFC.
12.   Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted
      to exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the
      exterior access to the fire sprinkler riser room (at a height of 5 feet to the top of
      the box). Lock box purchase can be arranged by the General Contractor.
13.   2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a
      serviceable type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to
      be located in a conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and
      immediately available for use. Placed every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or
      not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not
      more than five (5) feet above the floor.
14.   Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
      address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
      property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review.
1.    All organics, topsoil, undocumented fill and other deleterious material should be
      removed from below proposed building and pavement areas.
2.    Footings for the buildings may be supported on suitable natural soils or on
      compacted structural fill extended to suitable natural soils.
3.    Spot footings for columns should be supported on 2 feet of compacted structural fill
      if column loads are more than 140 kips, 3 feet of compacted structural fill if column
      loads are more than 280 kips and 4 feet of compacted structural fill if column loads
      are more than 420 kips. Strip footings should be supported on 1 foot of compacted
      structural fill if wall loads exceed 7 kips per linear foot.
4.    Footings for the structures may be designed using an allowable bearing capacity of
      3,000 psf.
5.    Footings should have a minimum width of 18 inches for strip footings and 24 inches
      for spot footings.
6.    Footings susceptible to frost should be located a minimum depth of 30 inches.
      Minimum embedment of footings not susceptible to frost is 15 inches.
7.    Seismic analysis for proposed structures at the site should be based on Site Class D
      and a design spectral acceleration for short period SDS of 0.905g.
8.    Floor slabs may be supported on suitable undisturbed natural soils or compacted
      structural fill extending to suitable undisturbed natural soils.
9.    Floor slabs should be underlain by at least 4-inches of free draining gravel.
10.   Type I/II or IA/IIA cement may be used for concrete placed in contact with natural
      soil.
11.   Prior to the placement of concrete for footings, a letter from the geotechnical
      engineer should be obtained that indicates subgrade for footing and floor slab
      support was prepared in accordance with the geotechnical report and ready for
      the placement of concrete.
12.   Gutters should discharge beyond the limits of backfill.
13.   Surface drainage should slope away from the structure in all directions with a 5
      percent grade for the first 10 feet in landscape areas and 2 percent in the first 10
      feet for pavement or concrete flatwork adjacent to the structures.
14.   All import materials should be approved by the Geotechnical Engineer.
15.    All compaction for interior and exterior backfill adjacent to the building should be
       verified by the geotechnical engineer.

Legal Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS




                    SD
               SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S89°01'15"E 550.94
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TT


                                                                                                                                                                                           STAIR
                                                                                                                                                                                           009


                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FIRE RISER
                                                                                                                                                            STAIR 1
                                                                                                                                          JAN.                STORAGE                              BREAK                111
                                                         OFFICE      OFFICE            OFFICE                OFFICE              OFFICE           STORAGE     109 STAIR)
                                                                                                                                            106             (UNDER                                  012                124 SF
                                                          002         003               004                   005                 006              007
                                                                              OFFICE                OFFICE             OFFICE             88 SF                008               OFFICE            145 SF   OFFICE
                                                         104 SF      111 SF            111 SF                111 SF              111 SF            85 SF
                                                                               103                   104                105                                    89 SF                                         013
                                                                                                                                                                                   110




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S1°26'05"W 189.16
                                                                                                                                                                                 WOMEN
                                                           OFFICE                                                                                                          MEN
                                                                              186 SF                192 SF             191 SF                                                     372                       118 SF
                                                                                                                                                  MEN                              011SF
                                                            102                                                                                                            010
                                                                                                                                                   107                            48 SF
                                                          6,093 SF                                                                                                     48 SF                                                                                           ELEC.
                                                                                                                                                  52 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       116
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       85 SF
                                                                                                                                                  WOMEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WOMEN
                                                                                                                                                   108                                                                                                                 JAN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   118
                                                                                                                                                   52 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       115
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  193 SF                                                   SD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ELEV. EQUIP.      ELEV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ELEV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          014            015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       113         MEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEASE SPACE 01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          57 SF         97 SF      117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    112
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  190 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5,300 SF



                                                                                        WAREHOUSE
                                                                                                                                SHOW ROOM
                                                                                              001
                                                                                                                                   101




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N2°34'51"E 1898.12
                                                                                         11,415 SF                              Redundant
                                                                                                                                  Room
197.41




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOBBY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 114
  N6°10'10"W




                                   UDOT SEWER EASEMENT
                                   ENTRY NO. 10723478
                                   BOOK 9733, PAGE 333




                         SS




                              SD                                                                                      WV N89°45'15"W 524.91                                                                                                                                                                                       T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              H                                            H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  YD                                           YD                            WV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IRR
   EXHIBIT G
LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JUSTIN HOHL OFFICE BUILDING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11450 SOUTH STATE STREET DRAPER, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LANDSCAPE PLAN
PLANT SCHEDULE TOTAL PROJECT
TREES    BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                                                     CONT    CAL   SIZE   QTY                  Miscanthus sinensis `Purpurescens` / Flame Grass                            5 gal                 41    TREE LOCATION AND FINAL PLACEMENT GUIDELINES:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1. TREES LOCATED ON THESE PLANS ARE BASED ON THE FOLLOWING DESIGN CRITERIA, AND THE DESIGNED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOCATION OF NON LANDSCAPE FACILITIES PROVIDED BY OTHERS, SUCH AS: UTILITIES, SIDEWALKS, BUILDINGS,
         Acer grandidentatum `Schmidt` / Rocky Mountain Glow Maple                   B&B     2"           4                    Pennisetum alopecuroides `Little Bunny` / Little Bunny Fountain Grass       2 gal                 60    SIGNS, LIGHTS, ROADWAYS, DRIVEWAYS, AND PROPERTY LINES. THE CONTRACTOR IS TO ADJUST THE FINAL TREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PLANTING PLACEMENT BASED ON THE "AS CONSTRUCTED" LOCATIONS OF THESE NON LANDSCAPE ITEMS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A. 5 FEET FROM WATER METER AND/OR UTILITY BOX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            B. 10 FEET FROM FIRE HYDRANT.
         Celtis occidentalis / Common Hackberry                                      B&B     2"           16                   Rhus aromatica `Gro-Low` / Gro-Low Fragrant Sumac                           5 gal                 19         C. 5-10 FEET FROM RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D. 5-10 FEET FROM PROPERTY LINE OF ADJOINING PARCEL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E. 5-10 FEET FROM NON-TRAFFIC CONDUCTING SIGNAGE.
                                                                                                                MULCHES / ROCK                                                                                                              F. 5-10 FEET FROM UTILITY POLE AND/OR LIGHT.
         Gleditsia triacanthos `Skyline` / Skyline Honey Locust                      B&B     2"           21                                                                                                                                G. 20 FEET FROM AN UNREGULATED INTERSECTION (20 FEET BACK FROM INTERSECTING SIDEWALKS).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            H. 30 FEET FROM STOP SIGNS.
                                                                                                                               3" MINIMUM DEPTH OF 3/4" TO 1-1/2" OF COLORED CRUSHED ROCK                                 3,373 S.F.        I. 30 FEET FROM COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAY AND/OR ALLEY.
                                                                                                                               (GRAYS, WHITES & BLACK) OVER DEWITT PRO 5 WEED BARRIER                                                       J. 40 FEET FROM AN INTERSECTION WITH TRAFFIC LIGHTS (40 FEET BACK FROM INTERSECTING SIDEWALKS).
         Picea pungens / Colorado Spruce                                             B&B           6`     2                                                                                                                                 K. 15-20 FEET FROM A TREE THAT IS SMALL IN SIZE AT MATURITY (LESS THAN 30 FEET TALL).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L. 20-30 FEET FROM A TREE THAT IS MEDIUM IN SIZE AT MATURITY (30-50 FEET TALL).
                                                                                                                               3" MINIMUM DEPTH OF 2" TO 2-1/2" OF COLORED CRUSHED ROCK                                  12,763 S.F.        M. 30-40 FEET FROM A TREE THAT IS LARGE IN SIZE AT MATURITY (MORE THAN 50 FEET TALL).
                                                                                                                               (BROWNS, REDS & BLACKS) OVER DEWITT PRO 5 WEED BARRIER
         Pinus flexilis `Vanderwolf`s Pyramid` / Vanderwolf`s Pyramid Pine           B&B           6`     6
                                                                                                                NOTES:
                                                                                                                1. SEE SHEET L-2 FOR LANDSCAPE NOTES AND DETAILS.
         Tilia cordata `Greenspire` / Greenspire Linden                              B&B     2"           5     2. LANDSCAPE MATERIAL SQUARE FOOTAGES AND PLANT QUANTITIES FOR REFERENCE ONLY, CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY
                                                                                                                ALL QUANTITIES AND SQUARE FOOTAGES.
                                                                                                                3. CLEAR VIEW AREA AT STREET INTERSECTIONS IS TO BE MEASURED PER DRAPER CITY DEVELOPMENT CODE SECTION
SHRUBS   BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                                                     CONT                       9-27-080.B. STREET TREE BRANCHES TO BE MAINTAINED AT A MIN. DISTANCE OF 7 FT FROM FINISHED GRADE.
                                                                                                                4. IRRIGATION SYSTEM IS EQUIPPED WITH A SMART ET BASED CONTROLLER AND RAIN SENSOR AS PART OF THE
                                                                                                                SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
         Berberis thunbergii `Atropurpurea Nana` / Dwarf Redleaf Japanses Barberry   2 gal                7     5. ROCK MULCHES TO COMPLIMENT & BLEND WITH ARCHITECTURAL MATERIALS AND COLORS. CONTRACTOR TO
                                                                                                                SUBMIT SAMPLES TO OWNER'S REPRESENTATIVE FOR APPROVAL PRIOR TO DELIVERY.
                                                                                                                6. SHADE TREES ARE TO BE A MINIMUM OF 2" CALIPER (MEASURED SIX INCHES ABOVE THE ROOT BALL) AT TIME OF
         Berberis thunbergii `Crimson Ruby` / Crimson Ruby Barberry                  5 gal                22    PLANTING.
                                                                                                                7. ORNAMENTAL TREES ARE TO BE A MINIMUM OF 1-1/2" CALIPER (MEASURED SIX INCHES ABOVE THE ROOT BALL) AT
                                                                                                                TIME OF PLANTING.
                                                                                                                8. EVERGREEN TREES ARE TO BE A MINIMUM OF SIX FEET TALL AT TIME OF PLANTING.
         Calamagrostis x acutiflora `Karl Foerster` / Feather Reed Grass             5 gal                79    9. DECIDUOUS AND EVERGREEN SHRUBS ARE TO BE FIVE-GALLON CONTAINER. PERENNIALS AND GROUND COVERS
                                                                                                                ARE TO BE ONE-GALLON CONTAINER.
                                                                                                                10. CONTRACTOR TO NOTIFY LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT IF ANY SITE CONSTRUCTION AREAS (OTHER THAN RETAINING
         Caryopteris x clandonensis `Dark Knight` / Blue Mist Shrub                  5 gal                34    WALL AREA IDENTIFIED ON THE PLAN) CONSIST OF SLOPES STEEPER THAN 2H:1V (2 FEET HORIZONTAL & 1 FOOT
                                                                                                                VERTICAL).

         Euonymus alatus `Compactus` / Compact Burning Bush                          5 gal                63


         Hemerocallis x `Stella de Oro` / Stella de Oro Daylily                      1 gal                42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH
         Juniperus horizontalis `Bar Harbor` / Bar Harbor Creeping Juniper           5 gal                66                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHEET:

         Miscanthus sinensis `Gracillimus` / Maiden Grass                            5 gal                10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0                20                 40                 60    feet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE: 1" = 20'
PLANTING NOTES:
  1. LANDSCAPE BIDS MUST BE IN A DETAILED UNIT PRICE FORMAT SHOWING                              11. FERTILIZER FOR SOD AREAS SHALL BE PELLETIZED, N-P-K AS APPROVED
COST BREAKDOWN OF ALL LANDSCAPE ELEMENTS. ANY ELEMENT MAY BE                                   BY LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT FOR SEASONAL ADJUSTMENT. USE 20 LBS PER
ADDED OR DELETED BY THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT OR OWNER. CONTRACTOR                               5,000 SQUARE FEET OR AS PER MANUFACTURER'S SPECIFICATIONS. SPREAD
COMPENSATION WILL BE ADJUSTED ACCORDING TO THE UNIT PRICE BIDS. ANY                            EVENLY ON A CAREFULLY PREPARED TOPSOIL LAYER JUST PRIOR TO LAYING
SUBSTITUTION MUST BE BY LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT APPROVAL. LANDSCAPE                                SOD.
ARCHITECT OR OWNER WITHOUT JUSTIFICATION MAY DISALLOW BIDS AND
SELECT CONTRACTOR REGARDLESS OF BID FIGURES. THE SELECTED                                        12. TREE STAKING AND GUYING SHALL BE ON AN AS NEEDED BASIS ONLY.
CONTRACTOR MUST CONTACT THE OWNER'S CONSTRUCTION REPRESENTATIVE                                THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DETERMINE STAKING NEEDS DEPENDENT ON THE SITE
BEFORE BEGINNING CONSTRUCTION TO SCHEDULE A PRE CONSTRUCTION                                   SOIL CONDITIONS. IT IS THE CONTRACTORS RESPONSIBILITY TO REMOVE
MEETING. CONTRACTOR OR SUBCONTRACTORS PARTICIPATION IN                                         GUYING AND STAKING IN A TIMELY MANNER ONCE STAKED TREES HAVE TAKEN
CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PLAN MUST BE LICENSED BY THE STATE OF UTAH FOR                            ROOT. NO STAKING SHALL REMAIN BEYOND A REASONABLE TIME FOR ROOT
THE TYPE OF WORK BEING PERFORMED.                                                              PENETRATION AND STABILIZATION.

  2. CODES, LAWS, REGULATIONS, AND PERMITS BY FEDERAL, STATE,                                    13. TREE WRAPPING MAY BE USED TO PROTECT YOUNG TREES FROM
COUNTY AND CITY AGENCIES FOR DESIGN CONCEPT, MATERIALS AND                                     WINTER DAMAGE. TREE WRAPS SHALL ONLY BE INSTALLED IN THE FALL. IF THE
WORKMANSHIP MUST BE RESEARCHED AND SATISFIED BY THE CONTRACTOR.                                CONTRACTOR INSTALLS WRAPS FOR TREE PROTECTION IT SHALL BE THE
REPORT ANY PROBLEMS OR REQUIREMENTS TO THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT.                                CONTRACTORS RESPONSIBILITY TO PROMPTLY REMOVE WRAPS THE
THE CONTRACTOR MUST VERIFY THE REGULATIONS FOR AND SECURE ANY                                  FOLLOWING SPRING.
PERMITS BEFORE BEGINNING CONSTRUCTION. THE COST FOR THE PERMIT FEES
MAY BE SUBMITTED TO THE OWNER FOR REIMBURSEMENT. CALL BLUE STAKES                                14. LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE MUST BE PERFORMED BY THE LANDSCAPE
AND REFER TO DRAINAGE AND CIVIL PLANS BEFORE ANY TRENCHING OR                                  CONTRACTOR DURING ESTABLISHMENT (30 DAYS AFTER FINAL ACCEPTANCE
EXCAVATION.                                                                                    OF ENTIRE PROJECT). RESPONSIBILITIES INCLUDE WEED CONTROL AND
                                                                                               MOWING. NOTIFY OWNER AND CONSTRUCTION REPRESENTATIVE WHEN
  3. CONSTRUCTION SAFETY AND CLEANUP MUST MEET OSHA STANDARDS                                  ESTABLISHMENT PERIOD HAS ENDED TO INSURE ONGOING MAINTENANCE. THE
AT ALL TIMES. ALL CONTRACTORS MUST HAVE ADEQUATE LIABILITY,                                    OWNER IS RESPONSIBLE FOR LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE AND UPKEEP ONCE
PERSONNEL INJURY AND PROPERTY DAMAGE INSURANCE. CLEAN UP MUST BE                               ESTABLISHMENT PERIOD HAS EXPIRED.
PERFORMED DAILY, AND ALL HARDSCAPE ELEMENTS MUST BE WASHED FREE
OF DIRT AND MUD ON FINAL CLEAN UP. CONSTRUCTION MUST OCCUR IN A                                  15. ALL PLANT MATERIAL AND LANDSCAPE ELEMENTS WILL BE GUARANTEED
TIMELY MANNER.                                                                                 FOR ONE YEAR AFTER FINAL ACCEPTANCE. ANY ITEMS THAT ARE NOT FIRST
                                                                                               CLASS PREMIUM QUALITY WILL BE REPLACED BY THE CONTRACTOR AT NO
  4. LANDSCAPE PLANS AND DETAIL DRAWINGS ARE SCHEMATIC ONLY,                                   COST TO THE OWNER. ANY PLANT MATERIAL THAT IS NOT PREMIUM QUALITY
DISCREPANCIES MAY EXIST, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO BUILDING                                 OR APPEARS STRESSED IN ANY WAY DURING THE GUARANTEE PERIOD MAY
LOCATION, PROPERTY LINES, ANY DIMENSIONS SPECIFIED OR IMPLIED. THE                             REQUIRE REPLACEMENT. THE CONTRACTOR MUST SCHEDULE A PRE AND POST
CONTRACTOR WILL BE REQUIRED TO ADJUST PLANS AS NECESSARY TO RETAIN                             GUARANTEE MEETING WITH THE OWNER'S REPRESENTATIVE FOR INSPECTION.
CONCEPT INTEGRITY. CONTACT LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT IF DISCREPANCIES                                FAILURE TO DO SO WILL MEAN THE OFFICIAL GUARANTEE PERIOD HAS NOT
EXIST.                                                                                         BEEN ACTIVATED OR DE-ACTIVATED.

   5. PLANT MATERIAL EXCAVATION. CALL BLUE STAKE AND MAKE REFERENCE                              16. SUBMITTALS OF ALL LANDSCAPE MATERIALS SHALL BE APPROVED BY
TO DRAINAGE AND CIVIL PLANS BEFORE EXCAVATION FOR PLANT MATERIAL.                              THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT PRIOR TO COMMENCING WORK. PROVIDER
ALL HOLES MUST ALLOW FOR A MINIMUM OF TWELVE (12) INCHES OF                                    INFORMATION AND SAMPLES SHALL BE SUBMITTED OF ANY GRAVEL OR WOOD
SPECIFIED PLANTING MIX BACKFILL MATERIAL ON ALL SIDES OF ROOT BALL FOR                         MULCHES. NURSERY STOCK SUBMITTAL SHALL INCLUDE PROVIDER
SHRUBS, AND 3X BALL DIAMETER FOR TREES.                                                        INFORMATION WITH A LIST OF PLANT MATERIALS BEING PROVIDED BY THE
                                                                                               NURSERY.                                                                1   2
  6. PLANT MATERIAL BACKFILL MUST BE A WELL MIXED COMBINATION OF 1/3
NATIVE SOIL, 1/3 TOPSOIL, AND 1/3 ORGANIC COMPOSTED MATERIAL. DEEP                                17. IT IS THE CONTRACTORS RESPONSIBILITY TO VERIFY ALL QUANTITIES
WATER ALL PLANT MATERIAL IMMEDIATELY AFTER PLANTING. ADD BACKFILL                              LISTED ON THE PLANS AND THE AVAILABILITY OF ALL PLANT MATERIALS IN
MATERIAL TO DEPRESSIONS AS NECESSARY.                                                          THEIR SPECIFIC SIZES PRIOR TO SUBMITTING A BID. THE CONTRACTOR MUST
                                                                                               NOTIFY THE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT PRIOR TO SUBMITTING A BID IF THE
  7. SOIL AMENDING SHALL INCLUDE COMPOSTED ORGANIC MATERIAL TO BE                              CONTRACTOR DETERMINES A QUANTITY DEFICIENCY OR AVAILABILITY PROBLEM
ADDED AT A RATE OF THREE CUBIC YARDS PER 1000 SQUARE FEET. TILL INTO                           WITH SPECIFIED MATERIAL.
THE SUBGRADE SOIL PRIOR TO PLACING TOPSOIL. TILL AMENDMENTS IN TO A
DEPTH OF 6". ALL SOD AREAS SHALL HAVE THE SOIL AMENDED.                                          18. SPECIFICATIONS FOR LANDSCAPE AND IRRIGATION CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                               SHALL BE THE 2007 APWA "MANUAL OF STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS".
  8. TOP SOIL MUST BE A PREMIUM QUALITY DARK SANDY LOAM, FREE OF
ROCKS, CLODS, ROOTS, AND PLANT MATTER. THE TOPSOIL SHALL BE EVENLY                               19. ALL LANDSCAPE MATERIAL SHALL BE FULLY IRRIGATED BY AN
SPREAD AND SMOOTH GRADED ON A CAREFULLY PREPARED AMENDED                                       AUTOMATIC IRRIGATION SYSTEM.
SUBGRADE. TOPSOIL SHALL BE SPREAD TO A DEPTH OF FIVE INCHES (5") IN
ALL SOD AND SHRUB AREAS.                                                                        20. HERBICIDES: EPA REGISTERED AND APPROVED, OF TYPE RECOMMENDED
                                                                                               BY MANUFACTURE. PRE-EMERGENT HERBICIDE SHALL BE USED PRIOR TO
  9. SOD MUST BE PREMIUM QUALITY, ULTRA GREEN, EVENLY CUT,                                     MULCH PLACEMENT.
ESTABLISHED, HEALTHY, WEED AND DISEASE FREE, AND FROM AN APPROVED




                                                                                                                                                                                 LANDSCAPE NOTES AND DETAILS
SOURCE. SOD MUST BE DELIVERED AND LAID IMMEDIATELY AFTER CUTTING.




                                                                                                                                                                                  JUSTIN HOHL OFFICE BUILDING
                                                                                                21. SOIL AMENDMENTS AND WEED CONTROL: APPLY ROUNDUP OR EQUAL TO
SOD MUST BE LAID WITH NO GAPS BETWEEN PIECES ON A CAREFULLY                                    WEEDS IN THE PROJECT AREAS. APPLY HERBICIDE, WHILE PLANTS ARE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                11450 SOUTH STATE STREET DRAPER, UT
PREPARED TOPSOIL LAYER. THE LAID SOD MUST BE IMMEDIATELY WATERED                               GROWING IN A VIGOROUS STATE FOR BEST RESULTS. AFTER THREE (3) DAYS
AFTER INSTALLATION. ANY BURNED AREAS WILL REQUIRE REPLACEMENT.                                 REPEAT APPLICATION OF HERBICIDE TO WEEDS THAT ARE STILL ALIVE AND
ADJUST SPRINKLER SYSTEM TO ASSURE HEALTHY GREEN SURVIVAL OF THE                                REPEAT UNTIL WEEDS HAVE BEEN KILLED. AFTER WEEDS HAVE BEEN
SOD WITHOUT WATER WASTE.                                                                       CONTROLLED, ADD SOIL AMENDMENT AND FERTILIZERS AS REQUIRED BY TOP
                                                                                               SOIL ANALYSIS AND SPECIFICATIONS. INCORPORATE AMENDMENTS AS PER
 10. MULCH OVER DEWITT PRO 5 WEED BARRIER WILL BE REQUIRED IN ALL                              MANUFACTURER'S SPECIFICATIONS INTO PLANTING AREAS TO A MINIMUM OF
LANDSCAPE BEDS FOR SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, AND ANNUALS. SEE PLANS FOR                              FOUR (4") INCH DEPTH. PRE-EMERGENT HERBICIDE SHALL BE USED PRIOR TO
MULCH TYPES. MULCH SHALL BE EVENLY SPREAD ON A CAREFULLY PREPARED                              MULCH PLACEMENT
GRADE TO THE MINIMUM NOTED DEPTH. THE TOP OF ALL AREAS OF MULCH
SHALL BE AT THE GRADE OF THE ADJACENT CURB, WALK, OR EDGE OF
PAVEMENT.



                                                                                                                                                                       3

                                                                       TOPSOIL QUALITY GUIDELINES
                                                 Soluble salts    pH    Sand   Silt     Clay   Texture   Organic    % Coarse   Sodium
                                                   (dS/m or             (%)    (%)      (%)     class*   Matter     fragments Adsorption
                                 Category         mmho/cm)                                                (%)      (> 2 mm in   Ratio
                                                                                                                   diameter)** (SAR)*

                                 Ideal               <2          5.5 to < 70   < 70 < 30       L, SiL     >2.0         <2      < 3 for any
                                                                  7.5                                                           texture
                                 Acceptable          <4          5.0 to < 70   < 70 < 30        SCL,      >1.0                3 to 7 (SiL,                                 4
                                                                  8.2                          SL, CL,             2.1 to 5.0 SiCL, CL)
                                                                                                SiCL                           3 to 10
                                                                                                                              (SCL, SL,
                                                                                                                                 L)

                                 Unacceptable        >4         < 5.0 > 70 > 70 > 30 LS, SC,                <1.0             > 10 for
                                                                 or                             SiC, S,               > 5.0     any
                                                                > 8.2                            Si, C                          texture
                                *L = loam; SiL = Silt loam; SCL = sandy clay loam; SL = sandy loam; CL = clay loam; SiCL = silty clay loam;
                                         LS - loamy sand; SC = sandy clay; SiC = silty clay; S = sand; Si = silt; C = clay.
                                **This guideline also includes no fragments larger than 1 ½ inch in diameter.

                                                Nitrate-nitrogen (ppm or mg Phosphorus (ppm or     Potassium (ppm or     Iron (ppm or mg
                                 Category               N/kg soil)            mg P/kg soil)          mg K/kg soil)          Fe/kg soil)


                                 Acceptable               > 20                        > 15               > 150                > 10

                                Source: Utah State University, "Topsoil Quality Guidelines for Landscaping", December 2010.




                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET:

                                                                                                                                                                                        L-2
                                                                                                                                         10/27/2021 3:07:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                1 1.2                        2                  3         4                       5                                           5.96




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S11


                                                                                                                                                                     H                                                                                                                                                      H
                                                                                                                                                                    G.9                                                                                                                                                    G.9

                                                                                                                                                                    G                                                                                                                                                      G
                                                                                                                                                                    F.9                                                                                                                                                    F.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STAIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  209
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 287 SF
                                                                                                                                                                        F                                                                                                                                                   F
                                                                                                                                                                                           MECHANICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                        ROOFTOP (SCREENED)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ELEC.                        WOMEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        204                            206
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      104 SF                         193 SF
                                                                                                                                                                        E                                                                                                                                                   E


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ELEV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       213
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      100 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     205
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    190 SF
                                                                                                                                                                        D                                                                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEASE SPACE 02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOBBY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2     A202
                                                                                                                                                                 A201       2                                                                      201                         202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9,253 SF                    688 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S24




                                                                                                                                                                                        ROOFTOP PATIO                     S14

                                                                                                                                                                        C                     235                                                                                                                          C
                                                                                                                                                                                            4,650 SF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OPEN TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S23    BELOW




                                                                                                                                                                        B                                                                                                                                                  B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A.2
                                                                                                                                                                    A.2
                                                                                                                                                                     A                                                                                                                                                     A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S13
F:\AE URBIA JOBS\2020\AE2020.044 - Justin Hohl - 114 Office Sandy\1_Architectural\AE2020.044 - Justin Hohl Office - Core and Shell.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                1 1.2                        2                  3         4                       5                                           5.96




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JUSTIN HOHL OFFICE BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Level 02
 EXHIBIT H
ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                         10/27/2021 2:26:50 PM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (3) INSTANCES ON NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FACADE OVER 30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HORIZONTALLY WITHOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VERTICAL VARIATIONS IN PLANE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               INSTANCE (1) COMPLIES WITH                                    INSTANCE (2) IS ALLOWABLE PER          INSTANCE (3) COMPLIES WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9-22-040(C)(1)(b) THROUGH                                     9-22-040(C)(1), BEING LESS THAN        9-22-040(C)(1)(b) THROUGH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VARIATION IN SURFACE                                          40% OF THE TOTAL FACADE                VARIATION IN SURFACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PATTERN (PANELING WITH                                        LENGTH (40'-11" / 203'-9" = 20%)       PATTERN (PANELING WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REVEALS)                                                                                             REVEALS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                            6                                                                 5                                                    4                       203'-11"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3                                                  2                                             1.21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20'-6"                                                       62'-6"                                                                  40'-11"                                      13'-9"                                            66'-3"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FIBER CEMENT PANEL SYSTEM - SMOOTH                                      ACM METAL PANEL - ALPOLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ALLURA OR APPROVED EQUAL                                           OR APPROVED EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                 T.O. PARAPET 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. PARAPET 2
                                                                                                                                                                         150'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      150'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                 T.O. PARAPET 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. PARAPET 3
                                                                                                                                                                         149'-4"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      149'-4"
                                                                                                                                                                 T.O. PARAPET 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T.O. PARAPET 4
                                                                                                                                                                         148'-8"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERSTATE BRICK                                                                                                             148'-8"
                                                                                                                                                                         FIBER CEMENT ARTISAN LAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MIDNIGHT BLACK
                                                                                                                                                                         SIDING - SMOOTH JAMES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3 9/16" EMPEROR
                                                                                                                                                                         HARDIE OR APPROVED
                                                                                                                                                                         EQUAL

                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                         132'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FIBER CEMENT PANEL SYSTEM -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      132'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SMOOTH ALLURA OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      APPROVED EQUAL                       INTERSTATE BRICK MIDNIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BLACK 3 9/16" EMPEROR




                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                         116'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      116'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                         100'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. FTG                                                                                                      T.O. FTG                                                                                                                                                                                                                         100'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                          97'-6"                                                                                                     97'-6"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T.O. FOOTING -                                                                      T.O. FOOTING -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     STAIR                                                                               STAIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE  87'-0"                                                                     87'-0"         ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 0
                                                                                                                                                                          82'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                82'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1     NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PR201   3/32" = 1'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (1) INSTANCE ON EAST FACADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OVER 30' HORIZONTALLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WITHOUT VERTICAL VARIATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IN PLANE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRIMARY MATERIALS:
                                                                                                                                                                                         INSTANCE (1) COMPLIES WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                         9-22-040(C)(1)(a) BY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BRICK                                     1,652 SF   21%
                                                                                                                                                                                         PROVIDING HORIZONTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                         VARIATIONS IN PLANE LESS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ACM PANELS                                  828 SF   10%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4'-10"                            47'-7"                              5'-1"          20'-6"                           19'-5"
                                                                                                                                                                                         THAN EVERY 30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LONGBOARD SIDING                              0 SF    0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A                    B                    C                  D                E                 F                     F.9G       H                                                  FIBER CEMENT SIDING                         678 SF    9%
                                                                                                                                                                               T.O. PARAPET 1                                                                                                                                     ACM METAL PANEL - ALPOLIC                  INTERSTATE BRICK                            T.O. PARAPET 1                   FIBER CEMENT PANELS                       3,288 SF   41%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OR APPROVED EQUAL                          MIDNIGHT BLACK 3 9/16"
                                                                                                                                                                                       152'-0"                                                                                                                                                                               EMPEROR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         152'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                               T.O. PARAPET 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T.O. PARAPET 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SECONDARY MATERIALS:                                                         ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE              INTERSTATE BRICK - MIDNIGHT BLACK
                                                                                                                                                                                       150'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                           150'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4'-0" 2'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                               T.O. PARAPET 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T.O. PARAPET 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2'-1"




                                                                                                                                                                                       149'-4"                                                                                                                                                                                                                           149'-4"                          ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE                    1,544 SF   19%
                                                                                                                                                                               T.O. PARAPET 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T.O. PARAPET 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL                                     7,990 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1'-11"




                                                                                                                                                                                       148'-8"                                                                                                                                                                                                                           148'-8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FIBER CEMENT ARTISAN LAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                            FIBER CEMENT PANEL SYSTEM -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SIDING - SMOOTH JAMES
                                                                                                                                                                                                            SMOOTH ALLURA OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HARDIE OR APPROVED EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                            APPROVED EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                        132'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                          132'-0"                          PRIMARY MATERIALS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                            LONGBOARD - 4" V-GROOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                            DARK CHERRY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BRICK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8'-0"
F:\AE URBIA JOBS\2020\AE2020.044 - Justin Hohl - 114 Office Sandy\1_Architectural\AE2020.044 - Justin Hohl Office - Core and Shell.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ACM PANELS                                1,060 SF   34%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LEVEL 2                          LONGBOARD SIDING                            547 SF   18%                        ACM PANEL SYSTEM                LONGBOARD WOOD-LOOK METAL SIDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                        116'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                          116'-0"                          FIBER CEMENT SIDING                         262 SF    9%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FIBER CEMENT PANELS                         630 SF   20%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2'-6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      591 SF   19%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11'-6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SECONDARY MATERIALS:
                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                        100'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                          100'-0"                          ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE                        0 SF     0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL                                     3,090 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FIBER CEMENT PANEL SYSTEM -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ENTRY COMPLIES WITH 9-22-040(B) BY PROVIDING THE FOLLOWING (PLEASE                     SMOOTH ALLURA OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NOTE - MAIN LOBBY ENTRY IS ON SOUTH SIDE):                                             APPROVED EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -A COLONNADE (OPTION 1, A PROMINENT ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE UNIQUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TO THE DESIGN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -FIBER CEMENT SIDING IN WHITE (OPTION 2, COMPLEMENTARY YET DIFFERENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BUILDING MATERIALS OR COLORS - OTHER FIBER CEMENT IS GRAY)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -A PATIO (OPTION 4, PEDESTRIAN AMENITIES INCLUDING PATIOS OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PORCHES)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FIBER CEMENT ARTISAN LAP SIDING                FIBER CEMENT PANEL SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2     EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PR201   3/32" = 1'-0"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JUSTIN HOHL OFFICE BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Presentation Elevations
                                                                                                                                         10/27/2021 2:27:04 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (2) INSTANCES ON SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FACADE OVER 30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HORIZONTALLY WITHOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VERTICAL VARIATIONS IN PLANE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INSTANCE (2) COMPLIES WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INSTANCE (1) IS ALLOWABLE PER                                               9-22-040(C)(1)(a) BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9-22-040(C)(1), BEING LESS THAN                                             PROVIDING HORIZONTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             40% OF THE TOTAL FACADE                                                     VARIATIONS IN PLANE LESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LENGTH (49'-4" / 212'-7" = 23%)                                             THAN EVERY 30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11.2                                                            2                                                                      3                      212'-3"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4                                         5                                                            6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3'-10"            20'-10"                 1'-5"                                           49'-8"                                       4'-10"                                                                              123'-10"                                                                          4'-10"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LONGBOARD - 4" V-GROOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ACM METAL PANEL - ALPOLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DARK CHERRY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OR APPROVED EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. PARAPET 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERSTATE BRICK MIDNIGHT                                             22'-2"                                                                                                                                                                                                     T.O. PARAPET 1
                                                                                                                                                                           152'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BLACK 3 9/16" EMPEROR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            152'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. PARAPET 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T.O. PARAPET 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                           150'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   150'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. PARAPET 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T.O. PARAPET 3
                                                                                                                                                                           149'-4"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   149'-4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1'-11"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2'-1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FIBER CEMENT PANEL SYSTEM -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SMOOTH ALLURA OR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          APPROVED EQUAL


                                                                                                                                                                          LEVEL 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                           132'-0"                                                                                      ACM METAL PANEL - ALPOLIC                                                      FIBER CEMENT ARTISAN LAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     132'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OR APPROVED EQUAL                                                              SIDING - JAMES HARDIE OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       APPROVED EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LONGBOARD - 4" V-GROOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DARK CHERRY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4'-6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                          LEVEL 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                           116'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   116'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LONGBOARD - 4" V-GROOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DARK CHERRY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  21'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1'-8"
                                                                                                                                                                          LEVEL 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LEVEL 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                           100'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                         T.O. FTG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     100'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T.O. FTG
                                                                                                                                                                            97'-6"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    97'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ENTRY COMPLIES WITH 9-22-040(B) BY PROVIDING THE FOLLOWING:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -A COLONNADE (OPTION 1, A PROMINENT ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE UNIQUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TO THE DESIGN)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FIBER CEMENT PANEL SYSTEM -                                      ACM METAL PANEL - ALPOLIC
                                                                                                                                                                  T.O. FOOTING -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SMOOTH ALLURA OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T.O. FOOTING  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OR APPROVED EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -FIBER CEMENT SIDING IN WHITE (OPTION 2, COMPLEMENTARY YET DIFFERENT
                                                                                                                                                                  STAIR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STAIR                                             BUILDING MATERIALS OR COLORS - OTHER FIBER CEMENT IS GRAY)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  APPROVED EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -A PATIO (OPTION 4, PEDESTRIAN AMENITIES INCLUDING PATIOS OR
                                                                                                                                                                           87'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         87'-0"                                            PORCHES)
                                                                                                                                                                          LEVEL 0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 0
                                                                                                                                                                            82'-0"                                                                                                                                                     ARCHITECTURAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 82'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONCRETE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1     SOUTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PR202   3/32" = 1'-0"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOUTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              27'-3"           3'-0"   1'-10"                                        57'-1"                                                        4'-10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (2) INSTANCES ON WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FACADE OVER 30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HORIZONTALLY WITHOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PRIMARY MATERIALS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               INSTANCE (1) COMPLIES WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                          H   GF.9                     F   E                                 D               C                             B                      A                            9-22-040(C)(1)(a) BY                                        VERTICAL VARIATIONS IN PLANE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FIBER CEMENT PANEL SYSTEM -                                     ACM METAL PANEL - ALPOLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROVIDING HORIZONTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VARIATIONS IN PLANE LESS                                                                               BRICK                                               296 SF             5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SMOOTH ALLURA OR                                                OR APPROVED EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                 T.O. PARAPET 1                                                                        APPROVED EQUAL                                                                                                          THAN EVERY 30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T.O. PARAPET 1                        ACM PANELS                                        1,286 SF            20%
                                                                                                                                                                         152'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                152'-0"                               LONGBOARD SIDING                                    952 SF            15%
                                                                                                                                                                 T.O. PARAPET 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T.O. PARAPET 2
                                                                                                                                                                         150'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                150'-0"                               FIBER CEMENT SIDING                                 909 SF            15%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8'-1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FIBER CEMENT PANELS                               2,081 SF            33%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1'-11"
                                                                                                                                                                 T.O. PARAPET 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T.O. PARAPET 3
                                                                                                                                                                         149'-4"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                149'-4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LONGBOARD - 4" V-GROOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DARK CHERRY                                        INSTANCE (2) COMPLIES WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SECONDARY MATERIALS:                                                              ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE                                                   INTERSTATE BRICK - MIDNIGHT BLACK
                                                                                                                                                                            INTERSTATE BRICK MIDNIGHT                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9-22-040(C)(1)(a) BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROVIDING HORIZONTAL


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                            BLACK 3 9/16" EMPEROR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VARIATIONS IN PLANE LESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                 29'-4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THAN EVERY 30'                                             ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE                              784 SF            12%
                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                         132'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                132'-0"                               TOTAL                                             6,308 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6'-0"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18'-8"                18'-9"                       3'-0"    1'-5"                       40'-10"                                   3'-10"
                                                                                                                                                                            FIBER CEMENT LAP SIDING -
                                                                                                                                                                            SMOOTH ALLURA OR                                                                                                                 41'-10 3/4"                                                ACM METAL PANEL - ALPOLIC
                                                                                                                                                                            APPROVED EQUAL                                                                                                                                                                              OR APPROVED EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WEST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LONGBOARD - 4" V-GROOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4'-6"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DARK CHERRY
                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                         116'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                116'-0"                               PRIMARY MATERIALS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1'-8"
F:\AE URBIA JOBS\2020\AE2020.044 - Justin Hohl - 114 Office Sandy\1_Architectural\AE2020.044 - Justin Hohl Office - Core and Shell.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BRICK                                             1,350 SF            33%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15'-4"




                                                                                                                                                                            INTERSTATE BRICK MIDNIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11'-6"




                                                                                                                                                                            BLACK 3 9/16" EMPEROR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ACM PANELS                                          815 SF            20%                      ACM PANEL SYSTEM                                        LONGBOARD WOOD-LOOK METAL SIDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LONGBOARD SIDING                                    407 SF            10%
                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                         100'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. FTG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 100'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T.O. FTG                              FIBER CEMENT SIDING                                   0 SF             0%
                                                                                                                                                                          97'-6"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                97'-6"                                FIBER CEMENT PANELS                                 878 SF            22%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2'-6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SECONDARY MATERIALS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                 T.O. FOOTING -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T.O. FOOTING -
                                                                                                                                                                 STAIR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STAIR
                                                                                                                                                                          87'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                87'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE                              595 SF            15%
                                                                                                                                                                          82'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                82'-0"                                TOTAL                                             4,045 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ARCHITECTURAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONCRETE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2     WEST ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FIBER CEMENT ARTISAN LAP SIDING                                                  FIBER CEMENT PANEL SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PR202   3/32" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JUSTIN HOHL OFFICE BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Presentation Elevations
   EXHIBIT I
LIGHTING PLAN
                                                                                                                   Luminaire Schedule


                                                                                                                   Symbol         Qty       Label                               Arrangement          LLF         Description                                                                                              Lum. Lumens


                                                                                                                                  3         OP4                                 SINGLE               0.850       POLE MOUNTED AREA LIGHT, TYPE IV DISTRIBUTION, 20' POLE                                                  4909


                                                                                                                                  7         OP3                                 SINGLE               0.850       POLE MOUNTED AREA LIGHT, TYPE III DISTRIBUTION, 20' POLE                                                 4880


                                                                                                                                  2         WP                                  SINGLE               0.850       WALL MOUNTED WALL PACK, TYPE IV DISTRIBUTION, MOUNTED 14' AFF                                            9783


                                                                                                                                  6         WP1                                 SINGLE               0.850       WALL MOUNTED WALL PACK, TYPE III DISTRIBUTION, MOUNTED 14' AFF                                           9729




                                                                                                                   Calculation Summary


                                                                                                                   Label                                  CalcType                   Units               Avg       Max     Min         Avg/Min   Max/Min


                                                                                                                   SITE_Planar                            Illuminance                Fc                  0.65      6.2     0.0         N.A.      N.A.




0.0   0.0      0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0   0.0     0.1    0.1       0.1   0.1     0.1   0.1   0.1     0.1   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.1     0.1      0.1   0.1    0.1      0.1    0.1     0.1        0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0               0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0     0.0    0.0              0.0   0.0           0.0   0.1     0.1    0.1              0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0


0.0   0.0      0.0      0.1   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1      0.2   0.2     0.2    0.2       0.2   0.2     0.2   0.2   0.2     0.2   0.3    0.2     0.3   0.3     0.3      0.3   0.4    0.4      0.4    0.3     0.2        0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0               0.0     0.0           0.1   0.1     0.1    0.0              0.0   0.1           0.1   0.1     0.1    0.1              0.1   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0


0.0   0.0      0.1      0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1    0.2   0.4    0.5      0.7   0.9     1.0    0.9       0.9   0.8     0.8   0.9   1.0     1.0   1.0    0.9     0.9   0.9     1.0      1.2   1.4    1.5      1.4    1.3     1.0        0.6   0.4   0.2   0.1   0.1               0.1     0.1           0.1   0.1     0.1    0.1              0.1   0.1           0.1   0.2     0.2    0.1              0.1   0.1   0.0    0.0   0.0


0.0   0.1      0.1      0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.0   0.1   0.1    0.1    0.3   0.6    1.2      1.9   2.5     2.8    2.7       2.3   1.8     1.5   1.9   2.4     2.8   2.9    2.6     2.0   1.5     1.5      2.2   3.1    3.7      3.6    2.9     1.8        1.0   0.5   0.2   0.1   0.1               0.1     0.2           0.2   0.2     0.2    0.1              0.1   0.2           0.2   0.3     0.3    0.2              0.2   0.1   0.0    0.0   0.0
                                                                   8 STALLS                                                           8 STALLS
0.0   0.2      0.2      0.2   0.2   0.2    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.2    0.3   0.7    1.5      2.7   4.1     5.6    4.6       3.2   2.2     1.8   2.4   3.5     5.0   5.4    3.8     2.6   1.7     1.7      2.7   4.0    5.8      5.6    3.7     2.3        1.1   0.4   0.2   0.1   0.1               0.2     0.3           0.3   0.3     0.2    0.1              0.2   0.3           0.4   0.4     0.4    0.4              0.3   0.2   0.1    0.0   0.0
            17 STAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WP1
                                                                                                                                                                        5.2 WP15.6                                                 MH: 14
0.1   0.3      0.4      0.4   0.3   0.2    0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3    0.3    0.3   0.6    1.3      2.7   4.0      WP1 4.6
                                                                                                                     5.5              3.1   1.8     1.3   2.0   3.3                  3.6                                                                 1.1        0.5   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1               0.3   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2 4.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6          0.6   0.5     0.3    0.2              0.2   0.6           0.6   0.6     0.6    0.5              0.5   0.4   0.1    0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7 STALLS
                                                                                                                      MH: 14                                                MH: 14
                   LS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9 STALLS
0.1   0.5      0.6      0.6   0.5   0.3    0.2   0.1   0.2   0.4    3
                                                                   0.6   STALLS
                                                                          0.7  0.7     0.9                                                                                                                                                               0.2        0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2               0.4     0.9           0.8   0.6     0.4    0.2              0.3   0.8           0.8   0.8     0.8    0.8              0.7   0.7   0.1    0.0   0.0


0.1   0.6      0.9      0.8   0.6   0.4    0.2   0.1   0.2   0.5   0.8    1.1    1.6   1.9                                                                                                                                                               0.6        0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.4               0.6     1.1           1.0   0.8     0.5    0.3              0.4   1.0           1.1   1.0     1.0    1.0              1.0   0.9   0.2    0.1   0.0


0.2   0.8      1.2      1.1   0.8   0.4    0.2   0.1   0.2   0.5   0.8    1.2    2.1   3.8
                                                                                                                                                                       PROPOSED BUILDING                                                                 1.9        1.4   1.2   1.0   0.7   0.5               1.0     1.5           1.4   1.0     0.6    0.4              0.9   1.5           1.4   1.2     1.1    1.2              1.4   1.2   0.4    0.1   0.1

                                                                                                                                                                       F
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                       SQ.
                                                                                                                                                                         OOTPRINT=
                                                                                                                                                                            FT.                                                                                                                                   OP3                                                         OP3
0.3   1.2      1.5      1.3   0.9   0.5    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.5   0.9    1.4    2.4   4.5                                                                                                                                                               3.6        2.8   1.6   1.0   0.7   0.5               1.2 MH:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20            1.5   1.0     0.6    0.4              1.1 MH:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.420         1.5   1.2     1.1    1.3              1.6   1.4    0.6   0.1   0.1
                                                                                              WP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OP3
          OP3                                                                                 MH: 14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MH: 20
          MH: 20
0.3   1.1    1.5        1.3   0.9   0.5    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.5   0.8    1.3    2.3   4.1                                                                                                                                                               4.2        3.4   1.8   1.1   0.8   0.5               0.8     1.3           1.2   0.9   2 4.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0  0.6   0.4              0.7   1.3           1.3   1.2   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2 4.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.1   1.3              1.4   1.3   0.4    0.1   0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MH: 14
0.2   0.5      1.1      1.1   0.9   0.5    0.3   0.2   0.2   0.5   0.8    1.2    2.0   2.7                                                                                                                                                                4.1       3.5   1.8   1.2   0.7   0.4               0.4     1.0           0.9   0.8     0.5    0.3              0.4   1.0           1.0   1.0     1.0    1.1              1.1   0.9   0.2    0.1   0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8 STALLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8 STALLS
0.1   0.3      0.9      0.9   0.7   0.5    0.3   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.8    1.0    1.1   1.4                                                                                                                                                               4.9        3.4   1.8   1.1   0.7   0.4               0.3     0.8           0.7   0.6     0.4    0.2              0.3   0.7           0.8   0.8     0.9    0.8              0.8   0.6   0.1    0.1   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WP1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MH: 14




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9 STALLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9 STALLS
0.1   0.2      0.7      0.7   0.7   0.5    0.3   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.5    0.6    0.9   1.4                                                                                                                                                               3.8        2.2   1.6   1.1   0.7   0.4               0.3     0.5           0.5   0.4     0.3    0.2              0.2   0.5           0.5   0.6     0.6    0.6              0.6   0.4   0.1    0.0   0.0
                                                                                                         WP1                                                    WP1
                                                                                                         MH: 14                                                 MH: 14
0.1   0.2      0.5      0.6   0.6   0.5    0.4   0.3   0.2   0.3   0.4    0.7    1.4   2.7    4.2      6.0   5.8     4.0    2.7       1.9   2.3     3.6   5.3    6.2   4.8    3.2    1.9     1.1   1.0     1.5      2.2   3.0    3.2      3.0    2.5     2.1        1.3   0.9   0.7   0.5   0.3               0.3     0.3           0.3   0.3     0.2    0.1              0.1   0.3           0.3   0.4     0.4    0.4              0.3   0.2   0.0    0.0   0.0


0.1   0.2      0.5      0.6   0.7   0.7    0.5   0.3   0.2   0.3   0.4    0.7    1.3 142.2  3.4
                                                                                         STALLS        4.1   4.0     3.3    2.5       2.0   2.2     3.0   3.9   4.2     3.7   2.7    1.7     1.1 1.0  1.0           1.1   1.2    1.3      1.2    1.1     0.9        0.7   0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2 6.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4  0.3    0.2               0.2     0.2           0.2   0.2     0.2    0.1              0.1   0.2           0.2   0.3     0.3    0.3              0.2   0.1   0.0    0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                             10 STALLS

0.0   0.1      0.5      0.8   0.9   0.9    0.7   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.4    0.6    1.0   1.4    1.7      1.8   1.9     1.8    1.7       1.6   1.6     1.7   1.9   1.9     1.8   1.6    1.2     0.9   0.7     0.6      0.5   0.5    0.6      0.5    0.5     0.5        0.4   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2               0.2     0.2           0.2   0.2     0.2    0.2              0.2   0.2           0.2   0.3     0.2    0.2              0.2   0.1   0.1    0.0   0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5
0.0   0.1      0.3      0.9   1.1   1.1    0.9   0.6   0.4   0.3   0.4    0.5    0.6   0.6    0.7      0.8   0.8     0.8    0.9       0.8   0.8     0.8   0.8   0.8     0.8   0.7    0.6     0.6   0.5     0.5      0.4   0.5    0.5      0.5    0.5     0.5        0.4   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3               0.3     0.4           0.4   0.4     0.4    0.4              0.4   0.4           0.4   0.4     0.3    0.3              0.2   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.0


0.0   0.1      0.1      0.6   1.3   1.5    1.2   0.8   0.5   0.4   0.4    0.4    0.5   0.6    0.6      0.6   0.6     0.6    0.5       0.6   0.6     0.6   0.6   0.6     0.6   0.5    0.4     0.4   0.5     0.5      0.6   0.6    0.6      0.6    0.6     0.6        0.5   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6               0.6     0.6           0.6   0.6     0.6    0.6              0.6   0.7           0.7   0.6     0.5    0.4              0.3   0.2   0.1    0.1   0.0


0.0   0.1      0.1      0.4   1.3OP3 1.4   1.3   1.0   0.7   0.5   0.4    0.5    0.7   0.8    1.0      0.9   0.8     0.6    0.5       0.5   0.7     0.8   0.9   0.9     0.8   0.6    0.4     0.4   0.5     0.7      0.8   1.0    1.0      0.9    0.8     0.7        0.7   0.8   0.9   1.0   1.0               1.0     0.8           0.7   0.7     0.7    0.8              1.0   1.1           1.1   0.9     0.7    0.5              0.3   0.2   0.1    0.1   0.0
                                 MH: 20

0.0   0.1      0.1      0.2   0.5   1.1
                                            5 STALLS
                                           1.0 0.8  0.6      0.5   0.5    0.7
                                                                                150.9STALLS
                                                                                        1.0   1.1      1.0   0.9     0.8    0.6       0.7   0.8     1.0   1.1   1.1     1.0   0.7    0.5     0.5 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                             14    0.6  0.8         1.0   1.1    1.1      1.1    0.9     0.8        0.8   0.9   1.2           STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.5 151.4  1.1                  0.9           0.8   0.7     0.8    0.9              1.2   1.5           1.5   1.1     0.9    0.6              0.4   0.2   0.1    0.1   0.0


0.0   0.0      0.1      0.1   0.2   0.2    0.7   0.7   0.5   0.4   0.4    0.6    0.8   1.3     OP4 1.5
                                                                                              1.7            1.0     0.7    0.5       0.6   0.9     1.3   1.6OP4 1.5    1.2   0.8    0.5     0.4   0.5     0.8      1.3   1.7OP4 1.6      1.2    0.9     0.7        0.7   0.9   1.1   1.4OP3 1.4              1.1     0.9           0.7   0.6     0.7    0.9              1.1   1.4 OP3 1.4         1.0     0.8    0.6              0.3   0.2   0.1    0.0   0.0
                                                                                               MH: 20                                                        MH: 20                                                          MH: 20                                                                                                                                                 MH: 20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MH: 20

0.0   0.0      0.0      0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.2    0.2    0.2   0.4    0.7      0.6   0.2     0.1    0.1       0.1   0.1     0.4   0.8   0.7     0.3   0.1    0.1     0.1   0.1     0.1      0.4   0.7    0.6      0.3    0.2     0.1        0.1   0.2   0.4   0.7   0.7               0.4     0.2           0.2   0.2     0.1    0.2              0.3   0.6           0.6   0.3     0.2    0.1              0.1   0.1   0.0    0.0   0.0


0.0   0.0      0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.1    0.1    0.2   0.2    0.2      0.2   0.2     0.1    0.1       0.1   0.1     0.2   0.3   0.2     0.2   0.1    0.1     0.0   0.1     0.1      0.2   0.2    0.2      0.2    0.1     0.1        0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2               0.1     0.1           0.0   0.0     0.0    0.1              0.1   0.2           0.2   0.1     0.1    0.0              0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0


0.0   0.0      0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1      0.1   0.1     0.1    0.0       0.1   0.1     0.1   0.1   0.1     0.1   0.1    0.0     0.0   0.0     0.1      0.1   0.1    0.1      0.1    0.1     0.0        0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1               0.1     0.0           0.0   0.0     0.0    0.0              0.1   0.1           0.1   0.1     0.0    0.0              0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0


0.0   0.0      0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.1   0.1    0.1      0.0   0.0     0.0    0.0       0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0               0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0     0.0    0.0              0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0     0.0    0.0              0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0


0.0   0.0      0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0   0.0     0.0    0.0       0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0               0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0     0.0    0.0              0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0     0.0    0.0              0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
     EXHIBIT J
DEVIATION REQUESTS
909 W South Jordan Parkway
South Jordan, UT 84094
May 4, 2022

Draper City Planning Department
1020 Pioneer Rd, Draper, UT 84020

Maryann Pickering,

Attached to this letter are the revised documents addressing the comments from the
first round of comments from Draper city staff that were delivered on April 26th, 2021.

As noted in the responses we are requesting a few items from the planning commission.

   1. We are requesting the use of the tree diamond at the east parking stalls. This is
       essential in making our site plan function as we have worked with UDOT on the
       truck access in the property and they are requiring additional maneuvering on
       the west side of the building.
   2. We are requesting that the rooftop patio(green roof) can be used to make up
       the landscape requirement that we lack onsite. Once again we needed to
       make some large changes with UDOT on our site that eliminated landscape area
       on the east side. The rooftop patio would be fully landscaped with drought
       resistant plantings intermixed with larger planters that would be able hold smaller
       trees. This landscaped patio would be available to the whole building and would
       comply with section 9-22-030b.

1. Is consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan
or ordinance;
2. Reflects a design that conforms to the requirements of this chapter to the
greatest extent possible and offers alternative methods for addressing the
landscape requirement for which a deviation is being requested. Alternative
methods may include additional fencing, berming and plant material than what
would otherwise be required;
3. Will not adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents;
4. Will not adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public safety;
5. Is justified by site constraints; and

909 W SOUTH JORDAN PKWY            SOUTH JORDAN, UT 84095         OFFICE PHONE: 801-746-0456
                                        ae urbia.com
6. Is of high quality and integrates aesthetically with the design of the primary
buildings on site and established streetscape.



   3. We are requesting that we receive a height variance. After working through the
       city requirements, in order to provide sufficient ceiling height for the market and
       provide the height variation required by city code, we will need a height
       variance for the architectural elements (parapet walls) that extend above the
       required height. We are in compliance with the following code items from
       section 9-22-030b.

1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of
what is required in the development code and site plan review.

9. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or
modern, which utilizes facade materials differently then prescribed in subsection 9-22-
040F of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.

10. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
greater than the minimum required amount.




Sincerely,



KEITH HANSEN         ARCHITECT

keith@aeurbia.com / aeurbia.com

T: 801.746.0456 or D: 385.246.1403




      909 W SOUTH JORDAN PKWY        -   SOUTH JORDAN, UTAH 84095   -   PHONE: 801-746-0456
                                            aeurbia.com
