MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, MARCH 1,
2022, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:            Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha
                    Lowery, Fred Lowry, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:            Councilmember Cal Roberts

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Kellie
                    Challburg, Chief of Staff; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; John Eining,
                    Police Chief; Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager; Malena
                    Murray, Human Resources Director; Rhett Ogden, Recreation
                    Director; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson,
                    Communications Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen,
                    IT; Bob Wylie, Finance Director; Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning
                    Manager, Maryann Pickering, planner; Travis DeJong, Business
                    License Official
_____________________________________________________________
Study Session

1.0    Presentation: Fire Department Annual Report - Chief Clint Smith

1.1    Fire Chief Clint Smith gave a brief overview of the mission statement and the
       core values of the department, which were to serve the community to the best
       of their ability with integrity, teamwork, and communication. He indicated that
       he had given out a flowchart that showed the organization of the command
       staff, which he noted had not changed since last year. He briefly gave some
       information about the heads of each of the platoons and discussed staffing
       changes that had taken place in the last year, including some retirements and
       new hires.

1.2    Chief Smith then reviewed the most common emergencies that the
       department had responded to in 2021. He said that overall, Draper residents
       were fairly healthy, and there had not been a lot of heart attack cases that they
       responded to. He said there were also overall low fire cases, which he
       attributed to the fact that they were a newer city, and most of the buildings
       were up to date with safety features and the Code. He said that they did have
       a fairly high number of false alarm calls in 2021, and said that they were
       working on how to mitigate those calls. He said that 91% of the calls had been


Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – March 1, 2022
      run by them, servicing Draper City. He explained the remaining 9% of the calls
      involved assistance from neighboring cities. He then showed that they had
      tracked what days of the week were the busiest for them, and said that for the
      last year, Friday evenings had been their busiest time. He also noted that they
      had had about a 7% increase in call volume from 2020 to 2021, and noted that
      figure corresponded with the overall growth of the City.

1.3   Chief Smith reiterated that as a newer city, the overall risk of fire for them was
      low, and he thought they had done a good job of educating businesses and
      residents about how to reduce the risk of fire in buildings. He said that they
      had submitted a grant application in 2020 and although they had been denied
      that grant, the program had referred them to a state-run program for field
      mitigation, which they had been working with for the last 16 months, and last
      fall, they had received word that they had been approved for some grant
      funds. He anticipated that the grant funds would arrive at some point that
      week, and the funds would total about $500,000, dispersed over the next three
      years. He was very excited about the possibilities of that grant. He then
      mentioned that there would be a person coming in from out of state who
      would be managing the field mitigation program. Councilmember T. Lowery
      asked if there were sufficient access roads in the hill and fields surrounding
      Draper, and suggested that they utilize some of the funds to add additional
      fire access roads.

1.4   Chief Smith moved on to fire prevention. He said that they had conducted 825
      inspections over the last year, which was a substantial increase from years
      prior. He said that the department was getting better at identifying where
      dangerous chemicals and areas were in the City. Lastly, he touched on
      emergency management and said that they had revamped their emergency
      management organization. He said that the management team had quarterly
      meetings, to ensure that all involved stayed up to date. He also noted that
      they were specifically focused on public engagement, and finding ways to
      broadcast emergency notices so that the public always had access to vital
      information. Specifically, he said that they had focused on how and where
      they would evacuate residents in the SunCrest area. He ended his
      presentation by sharing photographs of the six most recent graduates from
      their program, as well as their new mascot. He commented that while they
      had many challenges ahead, he was proud of his department, and felt they
      were ready to face the task of serving their growing city.



                                                                            Page 2 of 10
**    Councilmember Green arrived at the meeting at 6:13 p.m.

2.0   Report: Semi-Annual City Deposit and Investment Report
      Presentation of the Semi-Annual City Deposit and Investment
      Report for December 31, 2021.

2.1   Finance Director Bob Wylie stated that this report was required to be sent to
      the state every six months, to update them on the state of their investment
      funds. He spoke about their Utah Public Treasury Fund, which was where the
      majority of their money was. He said that the interest rate on this fund was
      currently very high. He asked if there were any questions.

3.0   Discussion: Trucks on Traverse Ridge Road

3.1   Engineering/Public Works Director Scott Cooley said that they received a lot of
      complaints about speeding on Traverse Ridge Road. He said that there had
      been many incidents on that road, including one fatal accident. He said that a
      ramp had been proposed as a way of mitigating the risk, and the current speed
      limit on the road was 25 miles per hour for trucks. He explained the process
      that they used to determine what the speed limit of a road should be, and he
      said that due to the steep curves and sharp turns on the road, the Public Works
      department had decided that they could not increase the speed limit. He also
      said that they would have more officers posted in the area, to better enforce
      the speed limit. He recommended that they also update the signage that was
      posted in the area, and include flashing “slow down” signs that reminded
      drivers to obey the posted limit. He discussed that those signs were overall
      effective for people who accidentally sped, but less so for drivers that willfully
      exceeded the speed limit. He discussed that of the car accidents that had
      taken place in the area, the majority of the crashes had been from the brakes
      giving out on passenger cars, not trucks. He commented that the road was
      dangerous, and they were lucky that it had only been one fatality so far.

      Mr. Cooley proposed that they prohibit trucks with more than three axles from
      using the steepest section of the road. He then discussed that the problem
      with many of the crashes was due to driver error, and particularly the
      problems came from truckers allowing their brakes to overheat, causing them
      to fail. He said that the road was even a problem if trucks were well
      maintained. He then opened it up to the Council to get their input as to what
      the best solution might be. He pointed out that if they diverted the truck traffic

                                                                            Page 3 of 10
      to Suncrest Drive, they would likely get complaints from SunCrest residents,
      although he did think it was an important safety issue. He also discussed that
      there would be a cost involved to do this, and the development community
      would likely give their input as well. He said that for now, they would post a
      notice on the road that said, “no trucks on Traverse Ridge Road,” to start
      mitigating the issue. He said that if they did choose to go with his
      recommendation, it would require revising the Code, as well as additional
      enforcement on the road. He asked if there were any questions, and asked if
      the Council wanted to take a less aggressive approach to start.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that the public wanted something to be done,
      and reported that she had been asked by residents what the City was doing to
      resolve the issue. The consensus from the Council was that they would be
      negligent if they did not act and that they could not risk another death.
      Councilmember F. Lowry estimated that most large trucks or trailers would
      prefer to take the SunCrest route anyway since it was easier on the vehicles.
      The Council also discussed that it would be important to make sure that
      vehicles were regularly inspected, even though vehicle inspections were not
      required by Utah State law. Mr. Cooley noted that some of the accidents had
      been intentional, where the trucker had chosen to crash his truck after the
      brakes failed, rather than allow it to potentially run into other cars or people.
      Councilmember Green suggested that they add information to the City
      website to remind people to get their winter tires and brakes regularly
      inspected, and he suggested other ways that they could send out reminders
      to the public to make sure their vehicles were in good shape. The Council felt
      that in light of the recent death, the climate was right for the change that Mr.
      Cooley had proposed, and felt that it was an appropriate suggestion.

4.0   Council/Manager Reports

4.1   Councilmember F. Lowry reported that the Andy Ballard Arena was moving
      forward with the Renaissance Festival for one day, on a Friday night. He
      discussed that in the future, the Festival might be held for an entire weekend.
      He also reported that Food Truck Nights would begin on May 16th, and they
      would evaluate it over the summer. He said that they would pause it in June,
      and then they would determine if they would resume it in August, based on
      how it went over the summer. He also said that they might invite some of the
      vendors from the International Fair to join Food Truck Nights, and also
      potentially feature live music on certain nights.

                                                                           Page 4 of 10
4.2   Mayor Walker discussed House Bill 462, which was a housing bill that had been
      up for debate recently. He said that the proposed bill would take zoning
      authority away from the cities, and put it in the hands of developers. He
      reported that the bill had not evolved, so there was no bill on the floor now
      that could take away their development authority. He said that their lobbying
      team had worked hard to make sure it would not be passed. He said that the
      State wanted to add housing to the area around the Frontrunner station, but
      Draper could conduct traffic studies and evaluate the existing infrastructure
      to determine where exactly the housing should go. He discussed that since
      the area could handle more density, the State expected them to develop the
      area further, although they had the prerogative over where it would go. Mayor
      Walker estimated that that bill would pass either that evening or the next day.
      He discussed that a public interest group was sending out a lot of
      misinformation that was getting a lot of people worked up.

      Mayor Walker also spoke about House Bill 440, regarding homeless services.
      The bill would require cities that had a homeless center, which included
      Draper, to increase their maximum capacity in times of extreme weather, cold,
      or other crisis. He said that the capacity would have to increase to whatever
      the maximum number of people could be allowed in the building, according
      to the fire code. He said that if that did not solve the issue, then the Council
      of Mayors would have to pick a city to handle the overflow. He added that part
      of the bill stated that as people were sent to the overflow city, they could stay
      in any State building, or even a storefront, which concerned him. He said that
      the Council of Mayors had held a meeting to discuss the proposed bill, and
      they had suggested that some percentage of the overflow could be sent to a
      hotel or motel. He said that the facility would not have a say in the matter. He
      also clarified that this would only be for the winter months, and there would
      be no overflow provision in the summer. Mayor Walker thought that the motel
      solution would be better, and said he was curious to see how the bill evolved.
      He commented that a couple of Facebook groups were claiming that a
      homeless shelter was coming to Draper City, which was incorrect, and he said
      that they needed to monitor the bill as it evolved. He summarized that they
      could live with House Bill 462, and they needed to keep an eye on the evolution
      of House Bill 440.

      Councilmember T. Lowery pointed out that they also needed to differentiate
      between people who were in the shelters so that they could get treatment,

                                                                           Page 5 of 10
      versus the people that were just in the shelter for the night so they did not
      freeze overnight. She commented that those populations were different, and
      needed to be handled differently.

Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance



2.1   Pastor Ron Williams offered the prayer. Jake Sorensen led the Pledge of
      Allegiance.

3.0   Recognition: Samantha Pickering - National Youth Delegate to the 2022
      Washington Youth Summit

3.1   Mayor Walker recognized Samantha Pickering, who is a sophomore at Juan
      Diego Catholic High School. He stated that she had been selected as the
      National Youth Delegate to participate in the 2022 Washington Youth Summit
      on the environment. He listed some of her academic accomplishments and
      extended his congratulations on her selection as a delegate.

4.0   Public Comments

4.1   Tamara Walkenhort expressed her desire to preserve a part of the State prison
      at Point Project. She said that their state history was varied and mostly
      focused on the history of the Latter-Day Saints. She thought that the
      preservation of the prison would be an appropriate counterbalance to the
      emphasis on LDS history. She wanted to see a part of the prison, particularly
      a block of cells as well as the administrative buildings, preserved as a museum
      and interactive display.        She noted that many Draper residents had
      volunteered and worked at the facility over the years, which made it a part of
      Draper's history. She felt that a museum would help bring in tourism to the
      City as well, and imagined schoolchildren touring the prison buildings. She
      thanked the Council for their time.

5.0   Consent Items
      a. Approval of February 15, 2022, City Council Meeting Minutes.

                                                                         Page 6 of 10
      b. Approval of Resolution #22-11, a resolution authorizing the Mayor of the
         City of Draper to appoint Fred Aegerter as Community Development
         Director for Draper City.

5.1   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                 the   Consent   Items.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

5.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0   Action Item: Ordinance #1527, an Ordinance of Draper City Council amending
      Chapter 6-4 of the Draper City Municipal Code pertaining to Alcoholic
      Beverages Licenses - Reception Center Licenses and Single Event Permits.

6.1   City Attorney Mike Barker explained the reasoning behind the amendments
      and said that while their Code defined the reception center, they did not have
      an actual license to go along with the definition. He said that the amendment
      would create a license that would allow for the sale, storage, and consumption
      of alcoholic beverages in the reception center. He also proposed that some
      language be stricken from their single event permits, to follow State law. He
      said that the changes would make the wording in the permits clearer and
      easier to understand.

6.2   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve                   Ordinance    #1527.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

6.3   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0   Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Reception Center Alcohol License
      for Siempre, LLC

7.1   Business License Official Travis DeJong explained this would provide an
      alcohol license for a reception center, and he said that there was a provision
      in their Code that required the entrance to a reception center to be at least
      600 feet away from the nearest storefront, park, or other community location.
      He indicated on the map where the entrance to the reception center was and
      noted that per the Code, there was no limit on the number of Local Consents
      that could be given out by the City.

                                                                        Page 7 of 10
7.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor
      Walker closed the public hearing.

7.3   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve                the   Local   Consent.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

7.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

8.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1528 and #1529 (Legislative Action), an Ordinance
       amending the Official Zoning Map of Draper City for approximately 2.7 acres
       of property from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot
       minimum) to CC (Community Commercial) and an Ordinance amending the
       Official Land Use Map of Draper City for approximately 1.9 acres of property
       from Residential Low/Medium Density to Neighborhood Commercial, located
       approximately at 681 West 12300 South within Draper City, otherwise known
       as the Draper Galena Park Office Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment

8.1   Planning Manager Jennifer Jastremsky stated that the properties in question
      were currently split, so some were in residential low density, and some were
      in neighborhood commercial. She explained that the proposed change would
      put all the properties within the neighborhood commercial, and also put them
      all into the same zone. She said that the Planning Commission had
      recommended approval, shared photographs of the homes in question, and
      indicated their location on the map. She noted that all of the properties had
      homes on them, many of which predated the City.

8.2   Ryan Simmons with the Boyer Company expressed his appreciation for the
      landowners for working with them and explained that there was a three-story
      owner/user office that wanted to come into the City. He said that he wanted
      to see the rezone happen so that the business could move into Draper.

8.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor
      Walker closed the public hearing.

8.4   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve Ordinance #1528 and #1529.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.



                                                                       Page 8 of 10
       Councilmember T. Lowery remarked that this would be a good use of the land.
       Mayor Walker thought that the business was phenomenal, and agreed that it
       would be an asset to the City to have them in Draper.

8.5    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

9.0    Public Hearing: Ordinance #1526 (Legislative Action), an Ordinance amending
       the Official Zoning Map of Draper City for approximately 2.85 acres of property
       from CR (Regional Commercial) to CG (General Commercial) located at
       approximately 12674 S. Pony Express Road, within Draper City, otherwise
       known as the Airborne-Alcatraz Zoning Map Amendment.

9.1    Planner Maryann Pickering stated that the property was currently zoned CR,
       and the land use designation was community commercial. She shared aerial
       photographs of the property and explained that the applicant wanted to
       change the zone to CG so that if the current tenants ever left, the building
       would be more marketable. She said that the Planning Commission had
       recommended approval, and there would be no change or development that
       would take place if the change was approved.

9.2    The applicant elaborated that this was future planning, and there was no intent
       for Airborne or Alcatraz to leave. He viewed this as a retail flex for down the
       road if the current tenants ever chose to leave or downsize.

9.3    Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor
       Walker closed the public hearing.

9.4    Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                    Ordinance     #1526.
       Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

9.5    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

10.0   Adjournment

10.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting, which was then
       seconded.



                                                                          Page 9 of 10
10.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

10.3   The meeting adjourned at 7:31 p.m.




                                                                   Page 10 of 10
