Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: April 12, 2022
Re: City Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendment #2 Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment that includes multiple changes to Titles 9 and 17 of the DCMC including changes to definitions, exactions, special regulations in commercial zones, deviations from design standards, building design, site design, parking location, parking area design and construction, height limitations and exceptions, cross access and connectivity and other typographical and de minimis corrections. Proposed changes also include the enactment of new sections regarding exactions in Titles 9 and 17 and cross access and connectivity in Title 17.
A Notice of Intent to amend the Draper City Municipal Code pertaining to cross access between commercial developments, access points, road connections, height deviations for commercial properties, and helipads was posted and mailed on November 11, 2021. The notice for the first public hearing of this application before the Planning Commission was made on December 30, 2021. Both notices included notice of intended regulations for helipads. Helipad provisions were ultimately not included in the legislative text of this ordinance and instead will be addressed in a separate text amendment application.
At the February 24, 2022 Planning Commission meeting a positive recommendation on the Text Amendment application was forwarded to the City Council on a 3-2 vote. Some additional changes to the text have been added by staff in the draft ordinance provided to the City Council that vary from the exact text presented at the Planning Commission meeting. The changes are based on feedback from the public hearings and comments from the Planning Commission.
The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For Denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type P.C. Staff Report 4/8/2022 Cover Memo Ordinance 1535 4/8/2022 Cover Memo