Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: October 18, 2022
Re: City Initiated Temporary Parking Ordinance Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to amend parking regulations within the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) regarding parking area location, design, and construction. The proposed amendments are primarily related to parking for temporary uses, special events, recreational vehicles, and trailers.
The Draper City Planning Commission unanimously recommended approval of the proposed Text Amendment to the City Council on a 5-0 vote. The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represent an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering.
For Denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with current best practices of urban planning, design, and engineering.
ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance #1566 10/6/2022 Cover Memo P.C. Staff Report 10/6/2022 Cover Memo