Maryann Pickering

From:                              Maryann Pickering
Sent:                              Wednesday, August 10, 2022 9:13 AM
To:                                Maryann Pickering
Subject:                           FW: Cinnamon Ridge - Lot 3




From: Broch Lassig <brochlassig@gmail.com>
Sent: Sunday, August 7, 2022 4:15 PM
To: Maryann Pickering <Maryann.Pickering@draperutah.gov>
Cc: Brien Maxfield <Brien.Maxfield@draperutah.gov>
Subject: Re: Cinnamon Ridge - Lot 3

Dear Jennifer Jastremsky Et al.,

I am requesting an extension to the completion and recording of the plat amendment for my property at 1124
LeAmbra Lane, Draper, UT 84020, also known as Lot 3 Cinnamon Ridge. We are aggressively pursuing
signatures from all required utility and municipal parties, but are likely to go beyond the 12 month deadline to
complete this process. Unfortunately, after receiving many of the required signatures, we have been required to
reprint and restart the signature process twice, due to demands from South Valley Sewer. As of the most recent
revision, we discovered a last minute challenge after receiving all signatures except for the final city signatures,
which requires us to reprint and reobtain all signatures for a third time. There was a PUE printed on all sides of
the property, which is not required per city code (per Brien Maxfield); a PUE is only required on the front, rear,
and one (1) side yard. This is critical due to a very large and expensive retaining wall, retaining the land
between our lot and our neighbors lot to the west (Lot 2). Without this new change, removing the PUE on the
western side yard, we are required to sign a very precarious PUE Encroachment Agreement with the city in
order to obtain the necessary retaining wall permit. This agreement causes significant risk and has the potential
to devalue our property significantly, due to the obligations of us and any future owner in the event we are
required to demolish or modify the wall that would encroach in the western PUE as originally printed on the
Mylar.

At this time, we have already received the updated Mylar and begun the signature retrieval process. We are
rushing to get this done, but it is an arduous process that simply takes time. For this reason, we are requesting
the 6-month extension we are entitled to. We truly hope to complete this process and finalize the recording of
the plat amendment as soon as possible, hopefully far before the 6-month extension expires.

I appreciate your time, consideration, and understanding. Please advise on next steps to obtain this extension
and ensure a successful completion of this process.

Respectfully,

Broch Lassig
801.637.3409




                                                          1
