                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                               June 30, 2020

To:                  Draper City Planning Commission
                     Business Date: July 9, 2020

From:                Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us

Re:       Bangerter Crossing 2 Office – Site Plan Request
          Application No.:   SPR-951-2020
          Applicant:         Elizabeth Cole, representing Wadsworth Development Group
          Project Location:  13673 S 100 E
          Current Zoning:    CR (Regional Commercial) zone
          Acreage:           1.67 Acre (Approximately 72,745 ft2)
          Request:           Request for approval of a Site Plan in the CR (Regional Commercial) zone
                             regarding the future construction of a commercial office building.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 1.67 acres located on the south
side of Bangerter Parkway, at approximately 13673 S 100 E in the Bangerter Crossing development
(Exhibit B). The properties are currently zoned CR (Regional Commercial). The applicant is requesting
that a Site Plan be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site as an office
building.

The subject properties are currently part of the Bangerter Crossing development, which has been
developed in several phases since 2006, and are part of this final development phase. The recently
approved Fairfield Inn & Suites and Bangerter Crossing 2 Office building are the final two buildings to be
constructed on the site.


ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the
Community/Neighborhood Commercial land use designation for the subject properties (See Exhibit C).




Bangerter Crossing 2 Office                                                                App. # SPR-951-2020
Site Plan Request                                      1
Bangerter Crossing 2 Office       App. # SPR-951-2020
Site Plan Request             2
The property has been assigned the CR zoning classification (Exhibit D). This zoning designation is not a
preferred zoning designation for the area but commercial development and zoning is supported by the
General Plan in this area. Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC): 9-8-020 Zone Purpose states: “The
purpose of the CR zone is to provide areas where a combination of destination oriented business, retail
commercial, entertainment, and related uses may be established, maintained and protected to serve both
residents and nonresidents of the city. Typical uses in this zone include large scale, master planned
commercial centers with outlying commercial pads, big box stores, offices, and various types of high
density residential uses.”

Site Plan Layout. The proposed office building will be four stories in height and will include first level
covered parking (Exhibit E). The site will be accessed off 13800 S 100 E and will be located to the east of
the recently approved Fairfield Inn & Suites. The site layout has the building centralized on the plan with
adequate parking surrounding the building and pedestrian crosswalks and amenities. The parking lot will
be accessed from the south off 100 E and the front façade will be facing northwest towards Bangerter
Highway and Interstate 15 interchange. Landscaping will surround the building and be injected in and
around the parking area.

A Plat Amendment application will need to be submitted and finalized in conjunction with this
application to adjust the boundary line with the recently approved Fairfield Inn & Suites and to
additionally combine the three parcels for this development. Approval of the Plat Amendment application
will need to be finalized before any building permits will be issued for this project.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. DCMC Chapter 9-23 states required landscaping should be 20% of the
site to include all landscaped areas. The site plan will contain 65% pavement/concrete, 15% building



Bangerter Crossing 2 Office                                                               App. # SPR-951-2020
Site Plan Request                                    3
footprint, and 20% landscaping (Exhibit F). 19% of the parking lot area will be landscaped for better
aesthetics and overall design.

Landscaping Modification. Chapter 9-23 of the DCMC makes provisions for the Planning Commission to
authorize a deviation to the strict compliance with the terms of the Code regarding landscaping
requirements. DCMC Section 9-23-030 states that development constraints can vary greatly among sites
and therefore the Planning Commission may approve landscaping plans that deviate from the landscaping
requirements of the DCMC based on making certain required findings in whole. Those findings,
according to DCMC Section 9-23-030(b), are that the deviation:

           1. Is consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan or ordinance;
           2. Reflects a design that conforms to the requirements of this chapter to the greatest extent
              possible and offers alternative methods for addressing the landscape requirement for which a
              deviation is being requested. Alternative methods may include additional fencing, berming and
              plant material than what would otherwise be required;
           3. Will not adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents;
           4. Will not adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public safety;
           5. Is justified by site constraints; and
           6. Is of high quality and integrates aesthetically with the design of the primary buildings on site
              and established streetscape.

The east side property line is required to contain 10-feet of landscaping on the perimeter lot line, per
DCMC Section 9-23-090. The applicant states in their deviation letter that they are unable to meet the
10-foot buffer without impacting the parking that is needed for the site. There is already 9.5-feet of
landscaping on the boundary line from an existing development and with this development the applicant
is proposing to add 3 additional feet of landscaping bringing 12.5-feet of landscaping on the boundary
line. The deviation request is for 7-feet of landscaping required. The applicant has provided a deviation
letter for review in regard to meeting the minimum criteria for this deviation (See Exhibit H).

Parking. The required min and maximum range for parking allowed under DCMC: Table 9-25-1 is 4
spaces per 1000 square feet of gross building floor area creating a range of 145-177 spaces for this site.
The site plan shows that there will be 134 stalls for this proposed development making the site plan 11
spaces short of what is required. The property to the west, which is the recently approved Fairfield Inn &
Suites, has 19 spaces above the minimum requirements, and the applicant has submitted a letter in regard
to offsite parking per DCMC Section 9-25-050(B) to be able to utilize 11 spaces from the adjoining lot
with the Fairfield Inn & Suites. The Planning Commission may authorize such parking allowance subject
to the following:

          DCMC Section 9-25-050(B):
          B. Off Site Parking: Where practical difficulties exist in providing on site parking or if public
          safety, convenience, or both, would be better served by locating parking on a separate lot or
          parcel, the planning commission may authorize such off site parking subject to the following
          conditions:
          1. Required parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities shall not be located in an off
          site parking area;
          2. Off site parking areas shall be located in the same or a more intensive zone which applies to
          the property where the use served is located;
          3. No off site parking space shall be located more than six hundred feet (600') from a public
          entrance of the use served, measured along the route of the shortest practical walking distance;
          4. Off site parking shall not be separated from the principal use by a street right of way of a
          collector or arterial class;



Bangerter Crossing 2 Office                                                                  App. # SPR-951-2020
Site Plan Request                                      4
          5. Availability of each off site parking area shall be assured by an agreement reviewed and
          accepted by the city which requires at least the following:
          a. The parking area shall be continuously available unless an alternative parking area is
          provided;
          b. All parking spaces shall be available without charge; and
          c. All parking spaces shall be available perpetually to all uses utilizing the
          parking; and
          6. Before approving any off site parking area, the planning commission must find that such
          parking is conveniently usable without causing unreasonable:
          a. Hazard to pedestrians;
          b. Hazard to vehicular traffic;
          c. Traffic congestion;
          d. Interference with safe and convenient access to other parking areas in the vicinity;
          e. Detriment to the appropriate use of any business in the vicinity; and
          f. Detriment to any residential neighborhood.

Architectural Design Standards Modification. Chapter 22 of the DCMC makes provisions for the
Planning Commission to authorize deviations to strict compliance with the terms of the Code regarding
development design standards for architecture. DCMC Section 9-22-030 states that the Planning
Commission may approve architectural plans associated with development applications that deviate from
the requirements of the DCMC based on making at least three of the listed required findings. Those
findings, according to DCMC Section 9-22-030(b), are that the deviation:

            1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of
               what is required in the development code and site plan review.
            2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space area exceeds
               the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
            3. The project is a transit oriented development (TOD) and provides connectivity to a
               transportation facility.
            4. Traffic impacts on the neighborhood are lessened through programs, such as creative design,
               traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit pass programs.
            5. The project is an accredited LEED development.
            6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master
               plan or ordinance.
            7. The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases which
               involve redeveloped buildings, additions to existing buildings, minor structures added to
               a site, or new buildings within a previously approved phased project.
            8. Additional landscape plant material is provided in an amount at least ten percent (10%) more
               than the minimum required, including additional planting beds, plants, trees or a combination
               thereof.
            9. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or modern,
               which utilizes facade materials differently than prescribed in subsection F of this
               chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.
            10. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%) greater than
               the minimum required amount.

The applicant states that they meet criteria 1, 6, 7 and 9 of the ten deviation criteria as stated in their
deviation request letter (See Exhibit H).

Architecture. The design is a four story building with first level covered parking, three levels of office
space and large glass windows (Exhibit G). The CR Zone only allows a maximum height of 45-feet. The



Bangerter Crossing 2 Office                                                                     App. # SPR-951-2020
Site Plan Request                                       5
design that the applicant has proposed is 59-feet as a 4 story structure so they are requesting a deviation in
height of 14-feet. The two adjacent hotels, one existing and one soon to be constructed will have similar
heights at 55-feet making this request close to developments in the area. The applicant has provided a
deviation letter for review in regard to meeting the minimum criteria for this deviation (See Exhibit H).

Additionally the applicant has requested a deviation from roofline standards under DCMC Section 9-22-
040(D)(2) Height and Roofline. This code section requires variation in the roofline every 50-feet in order
to eliminate continuous, and undisturbed rooflines. The north elevation shows approximately 81-feet of
zero variation before stairwell section of the building, so the applicant will be asking for a deviation of
approximately 31-feet in this regard.

DCMC Section 9-22-040(F) requires quality materials that consist of minimum of 3 colors per elevation,
that the colors should be sensitive to existing development in the area, and that 75% of each buildings
face be primary materials. Doors, glass, and roofing materials are not calculated in primary and secondary
materials. Of the building materials proposed, stone and metal panels are considered primary materials
and EIFS is considered a secondary material. The applicant states that they meet 1, 6, 7 and 9 of the
criteria required for a deviation for materials as stated in their letter (See Exhibit H). The material
percentages per façade are as follows:

 Building Side                Primary Material
 East                         Stone Veneer                            48%
                              Prefinished Metal Panel                 14%
                              Total Primary                           62%
                              Deviation                               13%

 North                        Stone Veneer                            41%
                              Prefinished Metal Panel                 18%
                              Total Primary                           59%
                              Deviation                               16%

 South                        Stone Veneer                            38%
                              Prefinished Metal Panel                 18%
                              Total Primary                           56%
                              Deviation                               19%

 West                         Stone Veneer                            45%
                              Prefinished Metal Panel                 13%
                              Total Primary                           58%
                              Deviation                               17%

The site plan shows that the orientation of the building faces southwest. DCMC Section 9-22-050(1)
states:

          1. All buildings shall be located with the main facade facing the principal street to which it has
             frontage.

The building will be accessed off 100 E, which is at the south end of the site plan. The applicant has
proposed to have the main entrance to the building face southwest, facing Bangerter Highway and I-15.




Bangerter Crossing 2 Office                                                                  App. # SPR-951-2020
Site Plan Request                                       6
As you enter the parking lot from 100 E one will enter upon the rear entrance to the building.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Site Plan request is found in
Sections 9-5-060(E) of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of review for
such requests as:

Site Plan 9-5-090
        E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site plan:
            1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
               approved.
            2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
               limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
               materials.
            3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan
               and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
            4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
               development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
            5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7,
               8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
               concerns.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Site
Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Site Plan submission. Comments from these divisions, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Site Plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, in working with the Draper
City Building and Engineering Divisions, have completed their reviews of the geotechnical report
submitted as a part of the Site Plan. Comments from Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and
approve the application based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed
within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends that they include the
following conditions of approval:




Bangerter Crossing 2 Office                                                                  App. # SPR-951-2020
Site Plan Request                                     7
      1.         That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning, and
                 Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the construction of all
                 buildings on the site, including permitting.
      2.         That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the development of
                 the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
      3.         That the applicant submit and finalize a plat amendment application before any building and
                 land disturbance permits will be issued for this site.
      4.         Provide the updated Drainage Report, stamped by a Utah Professional Engineer.
      5.         Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
                 construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division and is
                 required prior to Building Permit issuance.
      6.         Per DCMC Section 9-5-090(J) failure to obtain a land disturbance permit within one year of
                 approval of any site plan shall void the prior site plan approval. Prior to the expiration of the
                 one-year period, an applicant may submit a written request with the community
                 development department for a site plan extension of up to six (6) months. Approval of this
                 extension may only be granted by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission,
                 whichever is the approval authority outlined in this section, provided the applicant can meet
                 the requirements for extension under section 9-5-030 and demonstrate substantial action
                 toward obtaining a land disturbance permit.
      7.         That the applicant meet all conditions required by DCMC Section 9-25-050(B) for off site
                 parking between the adjacent Fairfield Inn parking lot and Bangerter Crossing 2 Office
                 Building to meet parking requirements per DCMC. Parking agreement required to be
                 reviewed, accepted by the City and recorded prior to land use disturbance permit issuance.

The findings for approval as are follows:

      1.         The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is approved.
      2.         A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
                 limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
                 materials.
      3.         The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan
                 and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
      4.         The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
                 development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
      5.         The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8,
                 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
                 concerns.
     6.          That the requested deviations comply with DCMC Section 9-22-030(b), 9-23-030(b), and 9-
                 25-050(B) and meet the criteria for approval.


The findings for denial as are follows:

           1.        The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but
                     not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
                     building materials.
           2.        The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
                     general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
           3.        The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject
                     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.




Bangerter Crossing 2 Office                                                                      App. # SPR-951-2020
Site Plan Request                                         8
          4.         The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in
                     Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and
                     utilities concerns.
          5.         That the requested deviations do not comply with DCMC Section 9-22-030(b), 9-23-
                     030(b), and 9-25-050(B) and do not meet the criteria for approval.


MODEL MOTIONS
Off Site Parking: 9-25-050(B)
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve Off Site Parking request, as requested by
Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-951-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Off Site Parking request, requested
by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-951-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020 and as modified by
the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Off Site Parking Request, as requested by Elizabeth
Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-951-2020, based on the findings
listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020.


Deviations: DCMC Section 9-22-040(D) Roofline Length
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation to the Length of Uninterrupted Roof
Line, as requested by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-951-
2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation to the Length of
Uninterrupted Roof Line, requested by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group,
application SPR-951-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated June 30, 2020 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation to the Length of Uninterrupted Roof Lline,
as requested by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-951-2020,
based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020.

DCMC Section 9-22-040(D) Height.
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation to the maximum Building Height, as
requested by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-951-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation to the maximum Building
Height, requested by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-951-
2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020
and as modified by the findings and conditions below:




Bangerter Crossing 2 Office                                                                    App. # SPR-951-2020
Site Plan Request                                        9
          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation to the maximum Building Height, as
requested by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-159-2020,
based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020.


DCMC Section 9-22-040(F)(3)(a) Materials.
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation to Materials, as requested by
Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-951-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation to Materials, requested by
Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-951-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020 and as modified by
the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation to Materials, as requested by Elizabeth
Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-951-2020, based on the findings
listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020.

DCMC Section 9-22-050(A)(1) Building Placement.
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation to Building Placement, as requested
by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-951-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation to Building Placement,
requested by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-951-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020 and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation to Building Placement, as requested by
Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-951-2020, based on the
findings listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020.

DCMC Section 9-23-090 Perimeter Landscaping.
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation to Perimeter Landscaping, as
requested by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-951-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation to Perimeter Landscaping,
requested by Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-951-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020 and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…




Bangerter Crossing 2 Office                                                                App. # SPR-951-2020
Site Plan Request                                    10
Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation to Perimeter Landscaping, as requested by
Elizabeth Cole representing Wadsworth Development Group, application SPR-951-2020, based on the
findings listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020.


Site Plan
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Site Plan, as requested by Elizabeth Cole,
representing Wadsworth Development Group for application SPR-951-2020, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Site Plan, as requested by Elizabeth
Cole, representing Wadsworth Development Group for application SPR-951-2020, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020, and as modified by the
findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Site Plan, as requested by Elizabeth Cole,
representing Wadsworth Development Group for application SPR-951-2020, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 30, 2020.




Bangerter Crossing 2 Office                                                           App. # SPR-951-2020
Site Plan Request                                    11
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

   1. The applicant finalize any requirements by the DCMC and Draper City Staff.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. Third party approval is required of the geologic hazards report, DCMC 9-19-090, prior to site plan
      approval, per DCMC 9-5-090(D)(1)(g).

   2. Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to construction
      activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division and is required prior to
      Building Permit issuance.

   3. Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained through the
      Engineering Division.

   4. Provide the updated Drainage Report, stamped by a Utah Professional Engineer.

   5. Replace orifice with a 5.5” diameter opening per original drainage design or show 6” orifice meets
      the 0.1 cfs/acre max flow requirement with new basin design. – Response comment indicated a
      5.5” orifice will be used. Updated plans show a 5.8” orifice plate.


Fire Division Review.

   1. Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of twenty-six (26) feet
      exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be
      required. The road must be, designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency
      apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall
      have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a maximum grade of
      10%. Grades may be, checked prior to building permits being issued.

   2. Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire Department
      Access to the site shall be, installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department prior to the
      issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any of the hydrants or
      temporary Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.

   3. Fire Hydrants are required There are to be 4 hydrants installed however due to fire sprinklers only
      3 will be required. They are to be protected with bollards if susceptible to vehicle damage. The
      required fire flow for this project is 5000GPM for full 4 hour duration. A 50% reduction is
      allowed in fire flow which is 2500gpm for 2 hours, for installation of fire sprinklers.

   4. No combustible construction shall be, allowed prior to hydrant installation and testing by water
        purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any combustible elements being received or
        delivered on building site.

    5. Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler shop drawings are to
       be sent via email to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us . A complete set of plans, with
       manufacturer cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III
       or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to be a hydrant with-in a 100 feet of the FDC.)
       FDC is required to have KNOX Locking Caps. ALL FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE
       3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.

    6. Standpipes May Be Required. This building may be required to have standpipes. This standpipe
       will be required to be pressure tested and a Contractor Certificate of Completion will be required
       to be filled out.

    7. Post Indicator Valve with Tamper Required. If there is no designated fire riser room with a direct
       access door from the outside. There shall be either a wall mounted P.I.V (OS&Y) or a typical
       P.I.V placed a minimum distance of 40 feet from the building with a tamper switch.

    8. Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to be sent via email to
       the following to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us . A complete set of plans, with
       manufacturer cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III or
       better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE ALARM PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW
       PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.

    9. Emergency Responder Radio Coverage Required. Emergency responder radio coverage shall be
       provided in accordance with the IFC.

    10. Emergency Voice/Alarm Communication System May Be Required. An emergency voice/alarm
        communication system shall be provided in accordance with the IFC.

    11. Two-way communication will be required. As per Section 1009.8 in the 2015 IFC.

    12. Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted to exterior walls,
        near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the exterior access to the fire sprinkler
        riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the top of the box) Lock box purchase can be arranged by the
        General Contractor. See attached information form.

    13. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers
        plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with
        their background. Street Signs required and are to be posted and legible prior to building permits
        being, issued. All lots to have lot number or address posted and legible.

Notes:
Plan approval or review shall not, be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any person
designing, owning, operating or controlling any building. Damages to persons or property caused by
defects, fire, improper installation, or other emergency conditions that occur in or on the building property
shall not hold the Draper City Fire Department as assuming any liability.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                      BANGERTER HIGHWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GENERAL NOTES
                       CALL BLUESTAKES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.        ALL WORK TO COMPLY WITH DRAPER CITY STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
                       @ 1-800-662-4111 AT LEAST 48
                       HOURS PRIOR TO THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UDOT NO ACCESS EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                            14                                 BANGERTER HIGHWAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.        ALL IMPROVEMENTS MUST COMPLY WITH ADA STANDARDS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.

           x
                       COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
                                   x
                       CONSTRUCTION.
                                                         x                     x                     x                                                               x                                                  x                                                     x                                         x                                                     x                                                              S 88°12'00" E                   SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WEST   204.93'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH 204.93'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   204.93'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       204.93'                         x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.        SEE LANDSCAPE/ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR CONCRETE MATERIAL, COLOR, FINISH, AND SCORE PATTERNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THROUGHOUT SITE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ENSIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         THE STANDARD IN ENGINEERING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               x                                       S 82°56'00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              " Ex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NORTH 56.89'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WEST  56.89'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        56.89'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 56.89'                                                                                                                     4.        ALL PAVEMENT MARKINGS SHALL CONFORM TO THE LATEST EDITION OF THE M.U.T.C.D. (MANUAL ON UNIFORM
            BENCHMARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES).

CENTER OF SECTION 6,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       99.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SALT LAKE CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        90.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.        ALL SURFACE IMPROVEMENTS DISTURBED BY CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE RESTORED OR REPLACED,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 18.0'
T4S, R1E, SLB&M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INCLUDING TREES AND DECORATIVE SHRUBS, SOD, FENCES, WALLS AND STRUCTURES, WHETHER OR NOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6.0'
BRASS CAP MONUMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THEY ARE SPECIFICALLY SHOWN ON THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.                                              Sandy, UT 84070
ELEVATION = 4465.44'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.        NOTIFY ENGINEER OF ANY DISCREPANCIES IN DESIGN OR STAKING BEFORE PLACING CONCRETE OR ASPHALT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Phone: 801.255.0529

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            19                                                                                                                                              7.        THE CONTRACTOR IS TO PROTECT AND PRESERVE ALL EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS, UTILITIES, AND SIGNS, ETC.     LAYTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED ON THESE PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Phone: 801.547.1100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                26.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1                                                                                                                                     8.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TYP.                                                                                                                                       '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TYP.                                         4                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SCOPE OF WORK:                                                                                                Phone: 435.843.3590
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROVIDE, INSTALL AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR REFERENCED, THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20                                                                                                                                                 DETAILS NOTED, AND/OR AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:                                                  CEDAR CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ELECTRIC                                             COMPACT         COMPACT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            139.71'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ELECTRIC                             ELECTRIC                       COMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ELECTRIC                                        COMPACT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Phone: 435.865.1453
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMPACT          COMPACT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMPACT     COMPACT     COMPACT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6                                                                                                                                                                          1      ASPHALT PAVEMENT PER GEOTECHNICAL REPORT AND DETAIL 1/C-600.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TYP.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RICHFIELD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AR                                      AR                                                                           COMPACT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2      4” THICK CONCRETE SIDEWALK PER DRAPER CITY DETAIL ST-12. SEE SHEET C-600.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20                                                                                                                                       11.0'        5.0'       8.0'   8.5'                                                                                                        109.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0°00'00"139.71'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      139.71'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E    139.71'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        139.71'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Phone: 435.896.2983
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UP          1.3'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1        3      24” COLLECTION CURB AND GUTTER PER DETAIL 2/C-600.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AR                                                                 AR                                                          AR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4      24” REVERSE PAN CURB AND GUTTER PER DETAIL 3/C-600.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             90.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                            COMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5      TRANSITION BETWEEN COLLECTION CURB AND GUTTER AND REVERSE PAN CURB AND GUTTER.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20                                                                                                             2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WWW.ENSIGNENG.CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6      HANDICAP ACCESS RAMP PER DRAPER CITY DETAILS ST-04 AND ST-05. SEE SHEET C-602.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FOR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7      4" WIDE SOLID WHITE PAVEMENT MARKING PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 35.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WADSWORTH DEVELOPMENT GROUP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        166 E 14000 SOUTH #210
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8      NOT USED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONTACT:
                                                                                                                                                                               TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9      PAINTED ADA SYMBOL AND ASSOCIATED HATCHING PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ELIZABETH COLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   20                                                                                                                                                                                       14                                                                               "HANDICAP PARKING" SIGN PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.                                          PHONE:     801-748-4088
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9.2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11     "STOP" SIGN PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                          5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12     7 BIKE LOOP BIKE RACK PER DETAIL 9/C-600.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             18                                                                            PROPOSED BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           98.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                   4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 19.6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13673 SOUTH 100 EAST                                                                                                                                                                                              1.7'                                                                                                                                     3.5'                                                                                                        13     HANDICAP ACCESS RAMP PER DRAPER CITY STANDARDS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              67.3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AR
                                                                                                                                  13.1'                                                                              43.0'                                                                                                                                                                               144.1'                                                                                                                                                                    7.0'            18.0'                                                             26.0'                           18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 14     PROPERTY LINE. SHOWN FOR REFERENCE ONLY. REFER TO PLAT FOR INFO.
                                                                                                                                                                          5                                                                                                  6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 401                                   15     RELOCATED EXISTING MONUMENT SIGN. SEE C-100 FOR INFORMATION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BANGERTER CROSSING II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7                                                                                                         BANGERTER CROSSING LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9.7'
                                                                                                          18                                                              6                           AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.5'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16     MONUMENT SIGN PER ARCHITECTURAL PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TYP.
                                           FUTURE HOTEL SITE                                                                                                                                                                                                        20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           17     3' WATERWAY PER APWA STANDARD PLAN NO. 211.
                                                                                                                                       8.0'




                                                                                                                                       AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STAMPED CONCRETE DRIVEWAY APRON/CROSSWALK PER DETAIL 10/C-600 AND GEOTECHNICAL REPORT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 27.0'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 18     MATCH STYLE OF EXISTING HOTEL CROSSWALK AT DRIVE ACCESS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OFFICE BUILDING
                                                                                                                                  26.0'                                                                        18.0'                                   7.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3                                                                               TRASH ENCLOSURE PER ARCHITECTURAL PLANS WITH 6 21" THICK CONCRETE APRON WITH #4 REBAR @ 24"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UP                                                    8.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13673 SOUTH 100 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O.C. E.W. ON 6” GRAVEL BASE PER DETAIL4/C-600.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12.4'
                                                                                                              1                                                                                                 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    25.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2                                                                                                  20                                              6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             90.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20     ADA ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25' WIDE PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AR                                                     AR                                                                 AR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AND PRIVATE SEWER AND LATERAL                                                    OPEN DRIVEWAY APPROACH PER DRAPER CITY STANDARD DETAIL ST-08/C-600. SEE GENERAL NOTE 5 ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                AR




                                                                                                         14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EASEMENT                                                                         DETAIL ST-08 FOR THICKENED SIDEWALK DIMENSION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.0'
                                                                                                                                        238.95'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                               18.7'                                                                                                                          104.0'                                                                                 9.0'         5.0'        9.0'                                                                                                     45.0'                               7.7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TYP.                                                                    25.4'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20
                                                                                                                                                0°00'00"
                                                                                                                                              SOUTH
                                                                                                                                              WEST
                                                                                                                                              EAST
                                                                                                                                              N          E 238.95'
                                                                                                                                                         238.95'
                                                                                                                                                       238.95'
                                                                                                                                                       238.95'
                                                                                                                                        NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AR




                                                                                                                                                                                       6                                                                      18                                                                                                                                                                                  9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOTAL AREA                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  60.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8.0'                                                                                                                                          7                                                                                              3                                      73,070 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SITE SUMMARY TABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5                                                                                         TYP.                                                                                                                                 1.677 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FOR BUILDING C LOT
                                                                                                                                                                                              20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DESCRIPTION             AREA (SF)         PERCENTAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EASEMENT IN FAVOR OF DRAPER
                                                                                                         18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IRRIGATION COMPANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PAVEMENT/CONCRETE         47,829              65%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING GROUND FOOTPRINT         10,894              15%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            72.0'                                                                                     7.5'                                                                                            81.0'                                                            10.7'                                                         26.1'
                                                                                                                                                                              8.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LANDSCAPING       14,347              20%
                                                                                                                                                                              AR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15.6'
                                                                                                                                                                                            20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ISLAND CURB CUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      73,070 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.4'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    w
                                                                                                                  AR                                                                                                                                               6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FOR DRAINAGE                                                                                                                                                                                       TOTAL SITE                         100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.677 AC
                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                            6.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WEST            SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     90°00'00"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             147.83'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W 147.83'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            147.83'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     147.83'                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL BUILDING FLOOR AREA      40,174 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                       2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                   29.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EASEMENT WITH DRAPER
                                                                                            N 19°09'11" W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                       EAST
                                                                                                                       WEST
                                                                                                                       SOUTH
                                                                                                                       47.21'
                                                                                                                       NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AR                                                                                                                                                                             3                                 26.0'                                                                               5
                                                                                   6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IRRIGATION COMPANY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EASEMENT IN FAVOR OF SOUTH
                                                                                                    47.21'                                                                                                                        2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VALLEY SEWER DISTRICT                                      PARKING LOT AREA       29,274
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       26.0




                                                                                                                       1        2.6'                                                                                                                                   16                                                                                                                    17                                                                                                                         17                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5,471               19%
                                                                           4                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PARKING LOT LANDSCAPE AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.0'
                                                                                        '
                                                                                   45.0                                                                                                                                                                     TYP.                                                                                   3.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20                                                                                                        7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LD BOWERMAN INVESTEMENTS III, LLC
                                                                                            18.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                     N 89°50'28" W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DEAN SKALLA
                                                                                                                                                                                                      16.30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                      EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                      WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                      NORTH
                                                                                                 '




                                                                    6.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14.1'                                36.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARKING DATA TABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18.0




                                                                                                                                                                       4     16.30'                                                                                18                                                                                                    23.2'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PARKING REQUIRED - 4 STALLS / 1,000 SQ. FT. ± 25%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                      9.0'   9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                               N 0°09'32" E                                                                                                                                         12.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        33.54'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REQUIRED PARKING STALL RANGE           121 - 201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6                  5.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                     33.54'                                                                                                                                                                D=88°50'24"                                                                                                                                                      4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STANDARD STALLS            117
                                                                                                          26.0




                                                                                                                                         5                                                                                                                                               2                                                                 R=66.75'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AR




                                                                                                                                                                                   3                                                                                                                                             20
                                                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMPACT STALLS             13
                                                                                                                                                                                                      10.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L=103.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HANDICAP ACCESSIBLE STALLS              4
                                                                                       4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CB=N 61°03'06" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C=93.44'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL STALLS          134
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     97.87'




                                                                                                                                                                     11                                                                  36.5                                                                                                                                                                                                              14
                                                                                                              15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         21                                                                                                                                                                                           10.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING RETAIL BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0°00'00"97.87'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   97.87'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     97.87'97.87'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  129 E 13800 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING PUE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NO. DATE        REVISION                   BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1    3-26-2020 CITY COMMENTS 1             BM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2    4-16-2020 WATER LINE CHANGE           BM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING DETENTION BASIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         100 EAST STREET




                                 EXISTING HOTEL BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT NUMBER               PRINT DATE
                                       13690 S 100 E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5517C                        5/27/20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE                      DRAWN BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J. ELDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M. BUDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20                      0        10        20   40           PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B. MORRIS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C-201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HORZ: 1 inch = 20 ft.
   EXHIBIT F
LANDSCAPE PLAN
                       2" DIA. WOOD POSTS IN UNDISTURBED SOIL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LANDSCAPE SCHEDULE                                                                                         D       E      S       I          G N
                       ALIGN STAKES WITH DIRECTION OF PREVAILING                                                               PROJECT BOUNDARY
                       WIND. USE VINYL TWIST TIE TO SUPPORT TREE
                       EXCAVATE PLANTING PIT SO THAT THE ROOT                                                                                                                                                        Sym         Qnty      Scientific Name                                  Common Name                               Size      LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TREES                                                                                                & LAND PLANNING
                       FLARE SHALL BE 1-2" ABOVE FINAL GRADE OR 10%
                       OF ROOT BALL DEPTH.                                                                                                                                                                                                 Amerlanchier grandifolia 'Autumn Brilliance' Autumn Brilliance Serviceberry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5                                                                                       2" Cal.
                       KEEP MULCH 3" AWAY FROM THE TREE TRUNK.                                                                                                                                                                      3      Cercis canadensis 'Forest Pansy'             Forest Pansy Redbud                 2" Cal.
                       PLACE 1-2" DEPTH OF MULCH OVER THE ROOT BALL.                                                                                                                                                                6      Platanus x acerifolia 'Bloodgood'            London Plane Tree                   2" Cal.             1375 E. PERRYS HOLLOW ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11      Zelkova serrata 'Mushashino'                 Mushashino Zelkova                  2" Cal.             PH/TXT/MO 8 0 1. 554 . 6146
                       INSTALL 4' DIA. MIN. CIRCLE OF 3" DEEP MULCH                                                                                                                                                                        SHRUBS                                                                      M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OC . CL LNG I S EDBTS@
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TTOCS
                       AROUND TREE OUTSIDE OF ROOTBALL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11      Buxus microphylla 'Winter Gem'               Winter Gem Boxwood                  3 Gal.
                       PLACE LANDSCAPE FABRIC UNDER MULCH WITH                                                                                                                                                                     22      Juniperus horizontalis 'Blue Chip'           Blue Chip Juniper                   5 Gal.
                       12 DIAMETER CLEAR CIRCLE AROUND TREE                                                                         STONE SLAB BENCH - 2' W x 8'L X 20"H,
                       TRUNK.                                                                                                                                                                                                      14      Rhamnus frangula x 'Fine Line'               Fine Line Buckthorn                 5 Gal.
                                                                                                                                    BROWNS CANYON STONE (UTAH SUNRISE),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   69      Rhus aromatica 'Gro Low'                     Gro Low Sumac                       5 Gal.
                       INSTALL 2-4" WATER SAUCER AROUND TREE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   28      Rosa 'Meigalpo' Red Drift                    Red Drift Rose                      5 Gal.
                       FINISHED GRADE.                                                                                                                                                                                             18      Spirea betulifolia 'Tor Gold'                Tor Gold Spirea                     5 Gal.
                       SLOPE EDGES OF PLANTING PIT AT 45 DEGREES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ORNAMENTAL GRASSES
 BALL
DEPTH                  AND SCARIFY SIDES BEFORE PLANTING.                                                                                                                                                                          125     Calamagrostis x acutifolia 'Overdam'         Overdam Feather Grass               1 Gal.
                                                                                                                           BENCH        BENCH          BENCH
                       BACKFILL PLANTING PIT WITH NATIVE SOIL OR                                                                                                                                                                    28     Miscanthus sinensis 'Gracillimus'            Slender Maiden Grass                1 Gal.              ISSUE DESCRIP.        DATE
                       SPECIFIED BACKFILL MIX.                                                                                                                                                                                             GROUNDCOVER                                                                                                             11.25.2019
                       AFTER PLACING TREE IN HOLE REMOVE WIRE                                                                                                                                                                   732 S.F.   Vinca minor  'Bowles'                        Dwarf Periwinkle                Flat/12" o.c.
                       AND/OR BURLAP IF STABILITY OF THE ROOT BALL
                       ALLOWS. IF NOT CUT AND REMOVE THE TOP                                                                                                                                                                               TURF                                                                                                  # REV. DESCRIPTION DATE
        3X ROOT BALL
                       HALF OF THE BURLAP WRAPPING AND WIRE                                                                                                                                                                     2,642 S.F. Chanshare Imperial Blue                                                          Sod
          DIAMETER




                                                                          PROJECT BOUNDARY
                       BASKETS. REMOVE ALL STRING AND TIES AT THE
                       TOP OF THE ROOT BALL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MULCH
                       UNDISTURBED OR 85% COMPACTED SOIL.                                                                                                                                                                                  Staker Parsons, Apache Gold, 1", Over DeWitt PRO5 Weed Barrier, All Planters 3"
                                              TREE PLANTING                                                                                                                                                                                Wood Mulch, Dark Brown, Medium Shredded - Groundcover areas Only                  1"
  B                                                        NOT TO SCALE


                                                                                                                    BANGERTER CROSSING II                                                                                                                                                                                                       This drawing, as an instrument of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                professional service, and shall not be




                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                      OFFICE BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                           used, in whole or part, for any other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                project without the written permission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of SCOTT THOMAS BLAKE DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L.L.C. Copyright © 2019




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LANDSCAPE GENERAL NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.   Contractor shall locate and verify the existence of all utilities within project area prior to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                commencement of work.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.   Do not commence planting operation until rough grading has been completed.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.   All plants shall bear the same relationship to finished grade as the original grade before digging.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.   All alterations to these drawings during construction shall be approved by the Project Representative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and recorded on "as Built" drawings by the Contractor.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5.   Pre-emergent herbicide shall be used prior to mulch placement.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6.   All plant materials shall conform to the minimum guidelines established by the American Standard for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Nursery Stock, published by the American Nursery Association, Inc.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7.   All plants to be balled and burlapped or container grown, unless otherwise noted on the plant list.
                                                                                                                               PROJECT BOUNDARY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bangerter Crossing II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8.   The contractor shall supply all plant material in quantities sufficient to complete the planting shown on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the drawings.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9.   Any proposed substitutions of plant species shall be made with plants of equivalent overall form,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                height, branching habit, flower, leaf color, fruit and culture only as approved by the Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Representative.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Office Building
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10. The Contractor shall locate and verify all existing utility lines prior to planting and shall report any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               conflicts to the Project Representative.

                                                                                                                                   EXISTING TURF DETENTION                                                                 11. Stake location of all proposed planting for approval by the Project Representative prior to
                                                                                                                                        BASIN TO REMAIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13690 South 100 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               commencement of planting.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12. All turf areas shall receive four inches (4") of topsoil prior to planting. All shrub, groundcover, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               perennial beds shall receive four inches (4") of topsoil prior to planting.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Draper Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13. Submit topsoil report prepared by a qualified soil testing laboratory prior to soil placement. Topsoil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               shall meet the following mechanical analysis:
                                                                                              EXISTING PARK STRIP                                                                                                                Sand (0.05 - 2.0 mm Dia.) 20 - 70%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Clay (0.002 - 0.05 mm Dia.) 20 - 70%
                                                                                             LANDSCAPE TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               The max. retained on a #10 sieve will be 15 percent. the topsoil shall meet the following analysis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               criteria:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               pH Range of 5.5 to 8.2, a min. of 4% and max. of 8% organic matter content and free of stones 34" or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               larger. Soluble salts <2 dS/m or mmho/cm and sodium absorption ration (sar) <6.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14. All tree rings and plant beds to receive mulch as specified in the Landscape Schedule.
                                                                                                                                                                            LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                   A                                                                                            SCALE: 1"=20'-0" NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PLAN



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L101
 EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1                      2                                            3                          4                                                          5   6                                                 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REV. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   05.28.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KEY NOTES:
                                                                                       This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              371  CONCRETE PARKING LOT BARRIER WALL 42" A.F.F, SEE STRUCTURAL
                                                                                                     representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2019 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              410  MANUFACTURED STONE VENEER SYSTEM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2 SITE SUBMITTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              548  PREFINISHED METAL FASCIA PANEL(s) AT PERIMETER OF P.T. SLAB. SEE ELEVATIONS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SECTIONS FOR DETAILS AND REQUIREMENTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              571 METAL GUARDRAIL SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              572 STAINLESS STEEL CABLE GUARD RAIL SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              720 PRE-FINISHED METAL PARAPET CAP FLASHING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              740 EXTERIOR INSULATION FINISH SYSTEM (EIFS) ON 2" RIGID INSULATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              803 THERMALLY BROKENALUMINUM STOREFRONT WINDOW SYSTEM, SEE STOREFRONT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ELEVATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 05..28.2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1072 FIRE DEPARTMENT KNOX BOX - COORDINATE WITH FIRE DEPARTMENT FOR LOCATION AND TYPE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OF BOX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXTERIOR MATERIAL CALCULATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBMITTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MATERIAL                      AREA              %

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EIFS                        1,407 SF              37%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MANUF. STONE VENEER         1,820 SF              48%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PREFINISHED METAL PANEL     528 SF                14%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3,755 SF              100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EIFS                        1,801 SF              41%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MANUF. STONE VENEER         1,816 SF              41%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PREFINISHED METAL PANEL     809 SF                18%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4,425 SF              100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EIFS                        2,157 SF              43%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               548                                                            MANUF. STONE VENEER         1,894 SF              38%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PREFINISHED METAL PANEL     920 SF                18%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4,971 SF              100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2                                                                                                       WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EIFS                        1,842 SF              41%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MANUF. STONE VENEER         2,007 SF              45%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  740     720                                                                                                                 PREFINISHED METAL PANEL     592 SF                13%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4,441 SF              100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T.O. PARAPET                                                     APPROXIMATE TOTAL S.F.      17,593 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    63' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ROOF DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      740                                                                                           60' - 2"
                                                                                                  D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  740
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     803




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        44' - 0"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      571




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        29' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 1
                                                                                              C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bangerter Crossing II Office Building
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PARKING LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            410         410             410                     371             1072




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EAST ELEVATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     13673 South 100 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A201    1/8" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Draper Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2                                                            548            2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                740
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    63' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           548
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ROOF DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    60' - 2"


                                                                                                      B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            740
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B
C:\Users\bbeecher\Documents\Bangerter Crossing 2_V.20_bbeecher@beecherwalker.com.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     572                                                                                                                                                                     410


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       44' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             803




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            572




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BEECHERWALKER.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       29' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                740

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                410




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LEVEL 1                                                                                                                                                Project Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15' - 0"                                                                                                                              DWN BY                                              CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Author                                             Checker
                                                                                                      A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          548
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A SITE PLAN APPROVAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SUBMITTAL
PRINTED AT 5/28/2020 2:56:17 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PARKING LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  410                    410              371             410                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAWING NUMBER


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1                      2                                            3                          4                                                          5   6                                                 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1                           2                                           3                                 4                     5       6                                                    7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REV. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                05.28.20
                                                                                       This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KEY NOTES:
                                                                                                     representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2019 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         371     CONCRETE PARKING LOT BARRIER WALL 42" A.F.F, SEE STRUCTURAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2 SITE SUBMITTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         410     MANUFACTURED STONE VENEER SYSTEM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         548     PREFINISHED METAL FASCIA PANEL(s) AT PERIMETER OF P.T. SLAB. SEE ELEVATIONS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SECTIONS FOR DETAILS AND REQUIREMENTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         570     ROOF BRACE, SEE STRUCTURAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         720     PRE-FINISHED METAL PARAPET CAP FLASHING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         740     EXTERIOR INSULATION FINISH SYSTEM (EIFS) ON 2" RIGID INSULATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1076    BUILDING SIGNAGE BY OWNER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              05..28.2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXTERIOR ELEVATION PRIMARY MATERIAL ANALYSIS:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUBMITTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAPER CITY ORDINANCE, TITLE 9, CHAPER 22, 9-22-040: BUILDING DESIGN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRIMARY MATERIALS: BRICK, STONE, CERAMIC TILE, WOOD, CONCRETE FIBER SIDING,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CMU, METAL COMPOSITE PANELS, ARCHITECTURAL PRECAST CONCRETE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SECONDARY MATERIALS: EIFS, STUCCO, CORRUGATED SHEET METAL, EXPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONCRETE, VINYL, SHAKE, OR WOOD SIDING.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AT LEAST 75% OF BUILDING FINISHED FACE SHALL BE PRIMARY MATERIALS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXTERIOR MATERIAL CALCULATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MATERIAL                        AREA            %

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          570                                                                                                                                       EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 720           740
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EIFS                           1,407 SF            37%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                          MANUF. STONE VENEER            1,820 SF            48%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              63' - 6"                                                                                                                                              PREFINISHED METAL PANEL        528 SF              14%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3,755 SF            100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ROOF DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              60' - 2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EIFS                           1,801 SF            41%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MANUF. STONE VENEER            1,816 SF            41%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PREFINISHED METAL PANEL        809 SF              18%
                                                                                                  D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       740                                                                                              548
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4,425 SF            100%                        D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EIFS                           2,157 SF            43%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MANUF. STONE VENEER            1,894 SF            38%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PREFINISHED METAL PANEL        920 SF              18%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           570                                                                     4,971 SF            100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEVEL 3                                                                                                                                               EIFS                           1,842 SF            41%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              44' - 0"                                                                                                                                              MANUF. STONE VENEER            2,007 SF            45%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PREFINISHED METAL PANEL        592 SF              13%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          410
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4,441 SF            100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2                                                                                                                                                    APPROXIMATE TOTAL S.F.         17,593 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1076




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              29' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15' - 0"

                                                                                              C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bangerter Crossing II Office Building
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PARKING LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   410
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           410             410
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2                                   2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C1          WEST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A202         1/8" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13673 South 100 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Draper Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 548             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     720             740         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 570
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           63' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROOF DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           60' - 2"


                                                                                                      B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            B
C:\Users\bbeecher\Documents\Bangerter Crossing 2_V.20_bbeecher@beecherwalker.com.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           44' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3115 EAST LION LANE, #200

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BEECHERWALKER.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           29' - 6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 410
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Project Number
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DWN BY                                              CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Author                                             Checker
                                                                                                      A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                410                                                                                                         A SITE PLAN APPROVAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SUBMITTAL
PRINTED AT 5/28/2020 2:56:25 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PARKING LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       410               410               371                       410     410                                                                                                                                                                      DRAWING NUMBER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SOUTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1                           2                                           3                                 4                     5       6                                                    7
     EXHIBIT H
DEVIATION REQUESTS
                                                         o. 801.438.9500       3115 East Lion Lane, #200       www.beecherwalker.com
                                                         f. 801.438.9501         Holladay, Utah 84121



BUILDING HEIGHT – DEVIATION REQUEST                                                #2
TO: Draper City Planning & Zoning                             DATE:                June 26, 2020


RE: Bangerter Crossing II Office Building
    13673 South 100 East
    Draper Utah



We are requesting approval for a height deviation.


Deviation Request:
The height restriction for the CR zone is 45’.
Our design is for a 4-story building, 3 floors of office space above on-grade parking. The top of roof parapet occurs at 63’-6”. The
building design fits in to the surrounding area of the development and is appropriate for its use and location.

Buildings in the area that have similar heights, and were approved include:
         Minuteman Office Building IV        79’-10” T.O. Parapet
         Minuteman Office Building V         79’-3 ¾” T. O. Parapet
         Minuteman Office Building VI        79’-3 ¾” T.O. Parapet
         Irvine Office Building              90’-8” T.O. Parapet
Please find drawings for these precedent buildings attached.

Below are the requirements and explanation for approval of the requested height deviation:

Code Criteria Requirements and Narratives:
1. The proposed height shall not have a material adverse effect upon the character of the area or the public health, safety and
general welfare.

The proposed building is set in the north side of the development next to Bangerter Highway. The site is located at an elevation
approximately 10’-15’ below Bangerter Highway minimizing the perception of the height of the building from the most visible
vantage point. To the southwest is a four-story Townplace Suites with a height of 47’–9”. A four-story Fairfield Inn has been
approved is planned to be constructed to the west. The proposed office building height will closely relate to the existing and
future hotels.

2. The proposed height shall be constructed and arranged so as to be compatible with the use and development of neighboring
properties with respect to scale and massing.

The proposed office building has 3 stories of office space directly above on-grade parking. The two hotels, both existing and
future, are similar in height. The design and scale of the office building will create a sense of continuity across the development.

3. The building will be designed to relate to the human scale and incorporate at least one of the following:

         A. Architectural detailing included on the ground floor to emphasize the pedestrian level of the building, including, but
         not limited to, intermediate cornice line, sign band, awnings or portico feature, change in building materials, and
         window shape.



The proposed office building relates to the pedestrian scale with covered entrances, and landscaping/seating features to invite
visitors to stop for personal reflection prior to entering the building. Both stairs are visible from the exterior of the building though
storefront window systems that extend from near-grade to the top floor. This creates a sense of connection to the entire building
as one approaches from the parking and sidewalk areas. Variation in materials and contrasting colors provide a visual invitation
to explore each façade.
          B. Include architectural detailing at the cornice level or accentuated building zones, when appropriate to the
          architectural style of the building.

Both stair towers extend out from the north and south elevations which accentuates both entrances and breaks up the mass of
the building. The raised and extended roofs create variation at the roof line.

          C. The roofline contains architectural features that give it a distinctive form or skyline, or the rooftop is designed for
          purposes such as rooftop gardens, common space for building occupants or the public, viewing platforms, shading or
          daylighting structures, renewable energy systems, and other similar uses. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)

This building has two stunning raised roofs over both stair towers. Each is supported by visually exciting and artistic structural
bracing. Soffits are covered in warm colored wood siding (Longboard or similar product) which adds a natural feel to the building
and an invitation to enter. In similar fashion, there are two roofs which extend out from all building elevations. The highlight of
the building is a concrete deck, which extends to the east from the third floor. It creates a sense of unity from interior to exterior
and allows visitors and workers to experience the building from ground level and the top floor.



Sincerely,
Beecher Walker & Associates


ISSUED BY:



Jory Walker, President and Principal Architect                 June 26, 2020
 (Signature)                                              (Date)
P:\BWA_COM\Minuteman Office Building\Office Building Shell\Drawings\Current\Minuteman Office Building 4\Sheets\MM4-A201 EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS.dwg, 11/2/2012 9:18:05 AM
P:\BWA_COM\Minuteman Office Building\Office Building Shell\Drawings\Current\Minuteman Office Building 4\Sheets\MM4-A202 EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS.dwg, 11/2/2012 9:18:10 AM
P:\BWA_COM\Minuteman Office Building\Office Building Shell\Drawings\Current\Minuteman Office Building 4\Sheets\MM4-AS101 ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN.dwg, 11/2/2012 9:16:30 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                       22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             82




                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13




                                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10




                                                                                                                                                                                                      10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RAMP




                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6




                                                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                                                             20
                                                                                                                                                                                        10
                                                                                                                                                                                                 10




                                                                                                                                                44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             82




                                                                                                                                                 19
                                                                                                                                                                                  16
                                                                                                                                                                                            16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1                                            2                                                                            3                                                                                                            4                                                                                                    5                                                                                                                6                                                                                                   7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REV. DATE
                                                       This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D4                                                                                                                                         C3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D1
                                                                    representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A302                                                Sim                                                                                   A301                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A302
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12   11             10                       9                                                 8                                  A5                                     7                                   6.7                                       6.3                                 6                                                                   5                                                                                      4                                        3                                      2                     1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A501

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  187' - 3 3/4"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX-03                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX-03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A501                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             182' - 9 3/4"                                                                                                                                                                                        TYP.                            A501                                    T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               927




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 179' - 3 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T. O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ISS. DATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9.15.2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       179' - 3 3/4"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     914           A501                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PENTHOUSE T.O.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                174' - 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TYP.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          174' - 3 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         940
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T.O. CONTROL JOINT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  170' - 6"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PS1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A521                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A521
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-03                  EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EX-03                                                                                                                T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    160' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    158' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     807
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX-03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-03                                                                                  EX-02                                                                                                                                                                                          EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX-03

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    144' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T.O. CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  140' - 6"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TYP.                                                              940
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX-03                                                                                                                                                                                   C3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-03                                                                                                                                                                    A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-02                                                                                                                                                                                 EX-01               EX-02                                                                                       EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX-02
                                                              D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX-03

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    130' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                        EX-01                                                                               EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX-03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A501                                       EX-02                                  EX-01                                 537                         D1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B4                                     EX-01                                                                                                                                                    A521                                                                                                                                        927                                                                                                                          927
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        927                                                                                                                                                              A501                                                                                                             EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX-01                                                                                       EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C3                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A501               939                                                                                                                    116' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX-04                                                                                 939
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T.O. CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  112' - 6"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX-01                                                3205
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .94




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             85




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .94
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    100' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       925                                                                                                                                                                                                               914
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             925



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C1    EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A201   1/8" = 1'-0"

                                                              C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A         B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A1                   A5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E                                              F                                            G                 H                                                    ELEVATION GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A302                                                                                                          A301                    A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A.          SEE SHEET A601 FOR DOOR AND WINDOW TYPES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                        B.          COORDINATE WINDOW HEIGHTS WITH WINDOW SCHEDULE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C.          MECHANICAL CONTRACTOR TO COMBINE FACE PLATES FOR DRYER VENT AND EXHAUST ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXTERIOR OF BUILDING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E.          STUCCO CONTROL JOINTS TO BE PLACED AS SHOWN ON ELEVATIONS BUT NO LENGTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           T.O. PARAPET                             SHOULD BE GREATER THAN 18 FT. IN EITHER DIRECTION BETWEEN JOINTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A501                                                                                                              EX-03           927                              940                                                                               182' - 9 3/4"            F.          NO STUCCO PANEL SHOULD EXCEED 144 SQ. FT. FOR VERTICAL APPLICATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX-03




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13893 SOUTH MINUTEMAN DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G.          NO STUCCO PANEL SHOULD EXCEED 100 SQ. FT. FOR HORIZONTAL, CURVED, OR ANGULAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T. O. PARAPET                                                 SECTIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        179' - 3 3/4"                                     H.          NO STUCCO PANEL LENGTH-TO-WIDTH RATIO SHOULD EXCEED 2-1/2" TO 1" IN GIVEN PANEL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I.          A STUCCO CONTROL JOINT SHOULD BE PLACED AT EACH HORIZONTAL FLOOR SUBSTRATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PENTHOUSE T.O.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FRAMING CHANGE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 174' - 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TYP.                        DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               174' - 3 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A501




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               18' - 11"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T.O. CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                170' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KEY NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-02                                          537         POWDER COATED METAL PIPE AND BRACKETS CANOPY SUPPORT SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          807         ALUMINUM CURTAIN WALL OR STOREFRONT WINDOW SYSTEM AS SCHEDULED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A521                                                                                                                                                                                            A521                                                                                             914         ALUMINUM COMPOSITE PANEL SYSTEM - SEE ELEVATIONS & SECTIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX-02                                                                                                                EX-02                                                                                                           T.O. PARAPET              925         GRANITE SLAB, DAKOTA MAHOGANY, POLISHED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      160' - 8"           926         EIFS, DRYVIT TERRA NEO - ANDES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 5               927         GRANITE / EIFS REVEAL, TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     158' - 0"            939         GRANITE CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          940         EIFS CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3205        FINISH GRADE, SEE CIVIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PR
                                                                        B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L I CENSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           807




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX-02                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       No.273765
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EX-02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 4                                                                                                                                                                             WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     144' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AT       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T.O. CONTROL JOINT                                                                                                                                                                                E OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        140' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX-02



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-02                                                                                      926
E:\Documents\MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA 5 V16_alyman.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               807                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   130' - 0"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               925
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           925

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX-01                                                                                                                                                                                                 ARCHITECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               537                                                   EX-02                                                                TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   537                         A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A501                                                                                                                                  927                                                                                                                                                                                                                            F 801.438.9501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A521
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               914                                        EX-01                                                                                                                                                                 EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A521                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX-04                                                                       EX-01 GRANITE, PRIMARY MATERIAL:                                                                 HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 2                                                  •        EAST/WEST ELEVATION - 25%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                116' - 0"                                               •        NORTH/SOUTH ELEVATION - 25%                                                       BEECHERWALKER.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A501                                         927
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               927
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T.O. CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   112' - 6"                                                                                                                                                                       PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       309.1510
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX-02 TERRANEO, PRIMARY MATERIAL:                                                                                         DWN BY                          CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    914                                                                      •      EAST/WEST ELEVATION - 50%                                                                                     DTN                              AL
                                                                        A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    •      NORTH/SOUTH ELEVATION - 50%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PLACE HOLDER SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REVIEW SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3205
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 1
10/14/2016 9:38:49 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     100' - 0"                                         EX-03 EIFS, SECONDARY MATERIAL:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             •        EAST/WEST ELEVATION - 25%                                                                                         EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EX-01                                                                                                                          925
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                925                              EX-01                                                                                                                                       •        NORTH/SOUTH ELEVATION - 25%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ELEVATIONS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAWING NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX-04 CLEAR ANODIZED ALUMINUM



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A201
PRINTED AT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A4    SOUTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A201   1/8" = 1'-0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1                                            2                                                                            3                                                                                                            4                                                                                                    5                                                                                                                6                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1                                                2                                                      3                                                                                               4                                                                                   5                                                                                              6                                                                                                    7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REV. DATE
                                                       This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized
                                                                    representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D1                                                                                                                                                                                         C3                                                                                                                      D4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1   2   A302                3                    4                                      5                                                  6                                      6.3              A301                  6.7                        7                                       A5             8           A302                                                       9                                                  10                              11                   12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A501

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     187' - 3 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A501                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX-03                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX-03                                          A501




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    182' - 9 3/4"                                                                                                                                                                                                      927




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ISS. DATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.15.2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T. O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                        D2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         179' - 3 3/4"                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX-04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TYP.                                                  914                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PENTHOUSE T.O.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C3                     A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     174' - 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A501




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             940                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   174' - 3 3/4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    170' - 6"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PS1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A521
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A521
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX-03                EX-02                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EX-03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      160' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LEVEL 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      158' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      807
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX-03                                                          EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX-03

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        144' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T.O. CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     140' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX-03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX-03
                                                              D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX-02                                                                                                                                EX-02                  EX-01        EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX-03                                                                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        130' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              537


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TYP.                                                                                                                              A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX-03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A501                       EX-02                      EX-01                                                                            A521                            D1                                      EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A501        927
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            927                      EX-01                                                                                                                                                   A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        927

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TYP.                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        116' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX-04                                                                                                                                 A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T.O. CONTROL JOINT



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A501

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3205
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .94
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               85




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .94
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        100' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 914




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C1    WEST ELEVATION
                                                              C                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A202   1/8" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A1                                                                                  A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ELEVATION GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A301                                                                                   A302                                                                        A.     SEE SHEET A601 FOR DOOR AND WINDOW TYPES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H       G                                               F                                       E                                                D                                               C                             B            A                                                       B.     COORDINATE WINDOW HEIGHTS WITH WINDOW SCHEDULE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C.     MECHANICAL CONTRACTOR TO COMBINE FACE PLATES FOR DRYER VENT AND EXHAUST ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXTERIOR OF BUILDING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                      E.     STUCCO CONTROL JOINTS TO BE PLACED AS SHOWN ON ELEVATIONS BUT NO LENGTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 187' - 3 3/4"                                                                                                                          SHOULD BE GREATER THAN 18 FT. IN EITHER DIRECTION BETWEEN JOINTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 F.     NO STUCCO PANEL SHOULD EXCEED 144 SQ. FT. FOR VERTICAL APPLICATION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13893 SOUTH MINUTEMAN DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sim                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G.     NO STUCCO PANEL SHOULD EXCEED 100 SQ. FT. FOR HORIZONTAL, CURVED, OR ANGULAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A5                                                                                                                                                                                          T.O. PARAPET                               SECTIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     927              EX-03       940                                                                                            H.     NO STUCCO PANEL LENGTH-TO-WIDTH RATIO SHOULD EXCEED 2-1/2" TO 1" IN GIVEN PANEL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A501                                                                                   EX-03                                                                                                    182' - 9 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I.     A STUCCO CONTROL JOINT SHOULD BE PLACED AT EACH HORIZONTAL FLOOR SUBSTRATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T. O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FRAMING CHANGE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             179' - 3 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PENTHOUSE T.O.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                174' - 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KEY NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TYP.                DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C3                            174' - 3 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A501                                                             537    POWDER COATED METAL PIPE AND BRACKETS CANOPY SUPPORT SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T.O. CONTROL JOINT                       807    ALUMINUM CURTAIN WALL OR STOREFRONT WINDOW SYSTEM AS SCHEDULED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      170' - 6"                  914    ALUMINUM COMPOSITE PANEL SYSTEM - SEE ELEVATIONS & SECTIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 925    GRANITE SLAB, DAKOTA MAHOGANY, POLISHED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 926    EIFS, DRYVIT TERRA NEO - ANDES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C6                                                                                                                                                                                                  C6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 927    GRANITE / EIFS REVEAL, TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A521                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX-02                                         940    EIFS CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A521
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EX-02                                                                                                  EX-02                                                                                                                3205   FINISH GRADE, SEE CIVIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T.O. CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     160' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     158' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PR
                                                                        B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L I CENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          No.273765
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     807




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX-02                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX-02                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AT       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 4                                                                                                                                                                              E OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     144' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T.O. CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      140' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX-02
E:\Documents\MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA 5 V16_alyman.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX-02                                                                    926



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     807
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     925
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     130' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXTERIOR MATERIAL LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ARCHITECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     537                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX-01                                                                                                                                                                   F 801.438.9501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     925                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             537                                                                                                                                                                   3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A1                                  EX-01 GRANITE, PRIMARY MATERIAL:                                                                  HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX-01                                                                                                                                                                                  927
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A1                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX-01                                                                                                   A521                                       •        EAST/WEST ELEVATION - 25%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A521                  914                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX-04                                                                       •        NORTH/SOUTH ELEVATION - 25%                                                        BEECHERWALKER.COM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    116' - 0"                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A501                                               927                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        309.1510
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T.O. CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            112' - 6"                                    EX-02 TERRANEO, PRIMARY MATERIAL:                                                                                          DWN BY                          CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •      EAST/WEST ELEVATION - 50%                                                                                      DTN                              AL
                                                                        A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      •      NORTH/SOUTH ELEVATION - 50%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PLACE HOLDER SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              914                                                                                                                                                                                         REVIEW SET
10/14/2016 9:43:15 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3205
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX-03 EIFS, SECONDARY MATERIAL:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •        EAST/WEST ELEVATION - 25%                                                                                          EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 1                                      •        NORTH/SOUTH ELEVATION - 25%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   100' - 0"                                                                                                                                                              ELEVATIONS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           925                     EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAWING NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX-04 CLEAR ANODIZED ALUMINUM



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A202
PRINTED AT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A4    NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A202   1/8" = 1'-0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1                                                2                                                      3                                                                                               4                                                                                   5                                                                                              6                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1                                            2                               3                                                                      4                                                       5                                                                                               6                                                     7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REV. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SITE PLAN GENERAL NOTES:
                                                       This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A.      SEE LANDSACAPE PLANS FOR INFORMATION ON PLANTING & HARDSCAPING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               B.      SLOPE DRIVEWAY TO MEET ADA CURB. MAXIMUM SLOPE 1/20.
                                                                    representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C.      REFER TO CIVIL DRAWINGS FOR ALL TECHNICAL DATA, ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS ARE FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COORDINATION ONLY.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D.      SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS FOR ALL SITE GRADING AND UTILITIES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E.      SEE LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS FOR ALL LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               F.      SEE ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS FOR ALL SITE LIGHTING, TRANSFORMER AND METER LOCATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G.      SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS FOR CONSTRUCTION LIMIT LINE, NEW / EXISTING CURB AND GUTTER.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ISS. DATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9.15.2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KEY NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2219   AREA DRAIN WHERE OCCURS, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2228   STORM DRAIN, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2229   WATER METER COVER, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2610   LIGHT POLE, SEE ELECTRICAL AND STRUCTURAL FOR BASE DETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3103   LANDSCAPING, SEE LANDSCAPE PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3202   CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3204   PIPE BOLLARD, SEE ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PS1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3206   ADA PARKING SYMBOL AT STALL, TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3208   PAINTED PARKING STRIPING - 4" - YELLOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3211   ADA PARKING SIGN, TYPICAL AT EACH STALL, SEE DETAIL D5/AS501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3212   HIGH FUEL EFFICIENT VEHICLE MARKINGS, PAINTED ON ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3222   TRASH DUMPSTER, SUPPLIED BY OTHERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3224   PROPERTY LINE, SEE CIVIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3227   NOT USED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3229   NO PARKING STRIPING AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3232   SEATING BENCH, SEE LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS. PROVIDE CONCRETE PAD AS NECESSARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3233   LOCKED BIKE STORAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3234   STAMPED AND COLORED ASPHALT, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3235   STAMPED CONCRETE CROSS WALK OR STAMPED AND PAINTED ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3236   GENERATOR ENCLOSURE, SEE SHEET AS501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3237   'VISITOR' MARKINGS PAINTED ON ASPHALT, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3240   FIRE HYDRANT, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3241   FUEL EFFICIENT VEHICLE SIGN, SEE DETAIL D5/AS501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3243   COVERED SMOKING AREA




                                                              D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2228


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2219

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3234




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3103                                                                                                                                                                                                                  61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TYP.                               TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TYP.                                                                               2229                 3202                               3103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3103



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3103


                                                              C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TYP.                                                                                                            Y

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3227
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3208
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3222
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3235                                                                                                 AS503                            3204                            3206                 3212
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (9) PLCS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3236
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          24




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13893 SOUTH MINUTEMAN DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3235
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3232
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3232
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3211         3241




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VISITOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3233


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VISITOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VISITOR                                                                                                                                                         3243
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VISITOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VISITOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VISITOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FEC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FEC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FEC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FEC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FEC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FEC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VISITOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FEC FEC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FEC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3232
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AS501




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VISITOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3232                                                                                                                                                                   3237




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VISITOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TYP.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VISITOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3211                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PR
                                                                        B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          52




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L I CENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   No.273765
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3224
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          22                                                                                                                                                                                        AT       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C1                                       3204                          3206          3229                 3212                 3241
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AS503                                            (8) PLCS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3224
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        67
E:\Documents\MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA 5 V16_alyman.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   69
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2228


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2219                                                                                                     24                                                                                                    24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TYP.                                                                                       TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                               ARCHITECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2610                                                                       2228                                                                                        2228                                                                                                                                                                                             T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3224                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            F 801.438.9501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3240                                   2610                                    3234
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              31                                                                                                                        3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          69                                                                                                                             15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BEECHERWALKER.COM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       309.1510
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DWN BY                          CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DTN                              AL
                                                                        A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PLACE HOLDER SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REVIEW SET
10/14/2016 9:48:30 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SITE PLAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAWING NUMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AS101
PRINTED AT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A1     ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AS101   1" = 30'-0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1                                            2                               3                                                                      4                                                       5                                                                                               6                                                     7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1                                                                        2                                         3                                                                                                          4                                                                         5                                                                                                  6                                                                                                    7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REV. DATE
                                                            This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized
                                                                         representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12          11             D1                        10                  9                                 8                                                                7                                   6.7               C3            6.3                 6                                                      5          D4                                                                       4                                  3                                          2                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A302                                                                                                                                                                                                   A301                                                                                              A302




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RELOCATED CELL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           914                                                                      914                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EQUIPMENT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TYP.                                   186' - 0 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A5                                 929                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX-01                                                                                T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A501                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             182' - 9 3/4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T. O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A501




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     06.27.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         179' - 3 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A501     914
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PENTHOUSE T.O.C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         174' - 10"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         174' - 3 3/4"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              940
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A501




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C6                                                                                                                                                                            A501                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A521
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A521
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        161' - 6"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             158' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         807




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         144' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C4                                                                 D3                                                                                                                                940                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D3                                          C4                             C4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A511                                                                  A511                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A511                                         A511                              A511
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A511
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX-01
                                                                       D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         130' - 0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX-02                                                                                                               EX-02


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          927                                        EX-02                   927                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX-02                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          927
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 927


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         116' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX-01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX-02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         100' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TYP.                                           TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           927                                                                                                               914                                                                                                                    2601                                           927




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C1    EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A201   1/8" = 1'-0"

                                                                   C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RELOCATED CELL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A1                                                                                                                                                 C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      H                 G                                     F                         TOWER          E                                        D                                              C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A302
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B                A                                ELEVATION GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EQUIPMENT                                     914
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A.         SEE SHEET A601 FOR DOOR AND WINDOW TYPES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                B.         COORDINATE WINDOW HEIGHTS WITH WINDOW SCHEDULE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA VI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  914                                   187' - 3 3/4"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. PARAPET                                                                   929
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 182' - 9 3/4"                                                                                    EX-01                           EX-01                                                                                 A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    929
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T. O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  179' - 3 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PENTHOUSE T.O.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  174' - 10"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13893 S. MINUTEMAN Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DECK BEARING                               E3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  174' - 3 3/4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T.O. CONTROL JOINT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KEY NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX-01                                                                                                                                                                                                  C6                                                                               807          ALUMINUM CURTAIN WALL OR STOREFRONT WINDOW SYSTEM AS SCHEDULED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     914          ALUMINUM COMPOSITE PANEL SYSTEM - SEE ELEVATIONS & SECTIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A521                                                                                                                                                          A521
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      927          GFRC BOARD AS SPECIFIED. INSTALL IN A HORIZONTAL - 1/3 SHIFTED PATTERN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     929          A.C.M. REVEAL, SEE DETAIL E1/A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     940          A.C.M. CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3205         FINISH GRADE, SEE CIVIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  158' - 0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PR
                                                                           B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               807




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L ICENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  No.273765




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  144' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MATERIAL PERCENTAGES - 100% PRIMARY (NO GLAZING)                                                                                         WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ATE      AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OF UT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C4
E:\Documents\MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA 6_V18_ryoungAWRM8.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A511                             D3                                   C4C4                                            D3                                                                                                                                              •        EX - 01: ACM PANEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOTAL: 11,898 SQ. FT = 70.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              929                                                                                A511                                  A531
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A531                                           A511                                                                                                                                                     •       EAST ELEVATION - 4,314 = 25.4%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •       WEST ELEVATION - 4,314 = 25.4%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •       NORTH ELEVATION - 1,635 = 9.6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •       SOUTH ELEVATION - 1,635 = 9.6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  130' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                807

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •        EX - 02: GFRC BOARDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOTAL: 5,104 SQ. FT. = 30.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •       EAST ELEVATION - 1,937 = 11.4%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           927                                                                  •       WEST ELEVATION - 1,937 = 11.4%                                              ARCHI TECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •       NORTH ELEVATION - 615 = 3.6%             T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •       SOUTH ELEVATION - 615 = 3.6%             F 801.438.9501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           914                                EX-01 ACM PANEL - 11,898 TOTAL SQ. FT. = 70.0%                                     3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX-01                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX-O2 GFRC PANEL - 5,104 TOTAL SQ. FT. = 30.0%                                     HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOTAL EXTERIOR MATERIAL SQ. FT. = 17,002 SQ. F.T. = 100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  116' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BEECHERWALKER.COM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        112' - 6"         INSULATED GLAZING SQ. FT.                                                                                                     PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            309.1902
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DWN BY                             CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              914                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SKB                                 AL
                                                                           A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •        INSULATED GLAZING/SPANDREL                   A                                                PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOTAL: 46,278 SQ. FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3205                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              •      EAST ELEVATION - 16,204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •      WEST ELEVATION - 16,204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 1
PRINTED AT 12/16/2019 9:29:55 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •      NORTH ELEVATION - 6,935
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •      SOUTH ELEVATION - 6,935
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX-02                                 927                                                                                    EX-02                             2601                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELEVATIONS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAWING NUMBER


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1                                                                        2                                         3                                                                                                          4                                                                         5                                                                                                  6                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                         2                                                        3                                                                                                                    4                                                         5                                                                                        6                                                                             7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REV. DATE
                                                            This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized
                                                                         representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1                2                 3                      4                                  D4     5              A5                                                          6                                          6.3               C3           6.7                        7                                     8                                                                 9            10                       D1            11                       12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A302                  A501                                          914
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      914                                                                        A301                                                                                                                                                                                 A302
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RELOCATED CELL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOWER       T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EQUIPMENT    187' - 3 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A5                                                                                                                               T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T. O. PARAPET                                                                   EX-01                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX-01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   179' - 3 3/4"                         927              A501                                                                                                                             181' - 6 3/4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        06.27.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PENTHOUSE T.O.C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               914
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      174' - 10"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DECK BEARING                                                                                                                           A501                                                                                                                                       A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      174' - 3 3/4"                                                                                                                                                                                                              940




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A521                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A521




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   158' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      144' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C4                                                D3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D3                   C4                          C4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A511                                              A511                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A511                  A511                        A511
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A531

                                                                       D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      130' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX-02


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX-02                          927


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      116' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T.O. CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     112' - 6"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A511



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      100' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            914
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2601




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C1      WEST ELEVATION
                                                                   C                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A202      1/8" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ELEVATION GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A1                                                                                              A1                                                                                                                     A.     SEE SHEET A601 FOR DOOR AND WINDOW TYPES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RELOCATED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               B.     COORDINATE WINDOW HEIGHTS WITH WINDOW SCHEDULE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA VI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A                B                                          C                                            D                      E           CELL TOWER                      F                              G          H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A302                                                                                            A301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  914                       EQUIPMENT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          186' - 0 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                            A5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-01                                                              927
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               182' - 9 3/4"                                                                   940                                              EX-01                                                                              A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T. O. PARAPET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13893 S. MINUTEMAN Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               179' - 3 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PENTHOUSE T.O.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               174' - 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DECK BEARING                                E3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KEY NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               174' - 3 3/4"                           A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               914     ALUMINUM COMPOSITE PANEL SYSTEM - SEE ELEVATIONS & SECTIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               927     GFRC BOARD AS SPECIFIED. INSTALL IN A HORIZONTAL - 1/3 SHIFTED PATTERN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               940     A.C.M. CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3205    FINISH GRADE, SEE CIVIL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C6                                                                                                                                                            C6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A521                                                                                                                                                              A521
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               161' - 3 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LEVEL 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               158' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PR
                                                                           B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L ICENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     No.273765




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MATERIAL PERCENTAGES - 100% PRIMARY (NO GLAZING)                                                                             ATE      AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LEVEL 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               144' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX-01
E:\Documents\MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA 6_V18_ryoungAWRM8.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C4                                                •       EX - 01: ACM PANEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C4                                        D3                                             C4                                                    D3                                           C4                                                                                 TOTAL: 11,898 SQ. FT = 70.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A511                                                                                                                                                                      A511                                                       •       EAST ELEVATION - 4,314 = 25.4%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A531                                                                                     A511                                                 A511                                           A511
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •       WEST ELEVATION - 4,314 = 25.4%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •       NORTH ELEVATION - 1,635 = 9.6%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               130' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •       SOUTH ELEVATION - 1,635 = 9.6%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX - 02: GFRC BOARDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOTAL: 5,104 SQ. FT. = 30.0%                                                            ARCHI TECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •       EAST ELEVATION - 1,937 = 11.4%               T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •       WEST ELEVATION - 1,937 = 11.4%               F 801.438.9501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •       NORTH ELEVATION - 615 = 3.6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •       SOUTH ELEVATION - 615 = 3.6%                 3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-02                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX-01 ACM PANEL - 11,898 TOTAL SQ. FT. = 70.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 914          EX-O2 GFRC PANEL - 5,104 TOTAL SQ. FT. = 30.0%                                        BEECHERWALKER.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOTAL EXTERIOR MATERIAL SQ. FT. = 17,002 SQ. F.T. = 100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  116' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               309.1902
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INSULATED GLAZING SQ. FT.                                                                                                DWN BY                             CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SKB                                 AL
                                                                           A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A                                                PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   914
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •       INSULATED GLAZING/SPANDREL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOTAL: 46,278 SQ. FT.
PRINTED AT 12/16/2019 9:30:10 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3205                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         •      EAST ELEVATION - 16,204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •      WEST ELEVATION - 16,204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •      NORTH ELEVATION - 6,935                                                                    EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    •      SOUTH ELEVATION - 6,935                                                                   ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2601                                                                                     EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAWING NUMBER



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SOUTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                         2                                                        3                                                                                                                    4                                                         5                                                                                        6                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1                                                 2                                                                                                   3                                                                                                                          4                                                                   5                                              6                                                   7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REV. DATE
                                                            This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SITE PLAN GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A.     SEE LANDSCAPE PLANS FOR INFORMATION ON PLANTING & HARDSCAPING.
                                                                         representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         B.     SLOPE DRIVEWAY TO MEET ADA CURB. MAXIMUM SLOPE 1/20.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C.     REFER TO CIVIL DRAWINGS FOR ALL TECHNICAL DATA, ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS ARE FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               38                                                                                                                                    29                         COORDINATION ONLY.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D.     SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS FOR ALL SITE GRADING AND UTILITIES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E.     SEE LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS FOR ALL LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           23            F.     SEE ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS FOR ALL SITE LIGHTING, TRANSFORMER AND METER LOCATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G.     SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS FOR CONSTRUCTION LIMIT LINE, NEW / EXISTING CURB AND GUTTER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         32

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KEY NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                              28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2610    LIGHT POLE, SEE ELECTRICAL AND STRUCTURAL FOR BASE DETAIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          06.27.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3103    LANDSCAPING, SEE LANDSCAPE PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3202    CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                                                        3204    PIPE BOLLARD, LIGHTED WHERE OCCURS - SEE CIVIL & ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               28                        3206    ADA PARKING SYMBOL AT STALL, TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3208    PAINTED PARKING STRIPING - 4" - YELLOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3211    ADA PARKING SIGN, TYPICAL AT EACH STALL, SEE DETAIL D5/AS501 - SEE CIVIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3212    HIGH FUEL EFFICIENT VEHICLE MARKINGS, PAINTED ON ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3224    PROPERTY LINE, SEE CIVIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3229    NO PARKING STRIPING AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3232    SEATING BENCH, SEE LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS. PROVIDE CONCRETE PAD AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               28                                NECESSARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                                                        3234    STAMPED AND COLORED ASPHALT, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3237    'VISITOR' MARKINGS PAINTED ON ASPHALT, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3240    FIRE HYDRANT, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                              28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                              28


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                             28

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -5



                                                                       D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                              28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                             28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                             28


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               36                                                                                                                             28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               36                                                                                                                             28


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               34                                                                                                                             27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AS501
                                                                   C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3212
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3208
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3237
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   19                                                                H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VISITOR   VISITOR             VISITOR   VISITOR   VISITOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA VI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          24                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  24         AS502


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         36                                                                                                                                    C1                                                                                                                                                                              3103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AS503
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3234                                                                                                                                                                   3232




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13893 S. MINUTEMAN Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FFFEFEECECCC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3224
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING OFFICE BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FEC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FEC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PR
                                                                           B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L ICENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       No.273765




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ATE      AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         36                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3232
E:\Documents\MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA 6_V18_ryoungAWRM8.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3206
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Y D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     H Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3229            A4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AS503
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3211
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3240                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   28

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VISIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VISIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VISIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3211                                                                                                                                                                                                       29                                                                                                                                                       BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VISIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VISIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OR                                                                                                           H Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ARCHI TECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      F 801.438.9501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BEECHERWALKER.COM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 309.1902
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DWN BY                             CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SKB                                 AL
                                                                           A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A                                                PERMIT SET
PRINTED AT 12/16/2019 9:36:01 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3224
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Y D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAWING NUMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AS101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1" = 30'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2610
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AS101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1                                                 2                                                                                                   3                                                                                                                          4                                                                   5                                              6                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1   2    3                                                         4                                      5                                                             6                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KEYNOTES                                                                       _ ELEVATION GENERAL NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REV. DATE
                                                                This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11.06.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12.19.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          04.02.19

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            06.18.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    515    ACM PANEL SYSTEM, SEE ACM PANEL COLOR LEGEND                                A.        ALL CURTAIN WALL SPANDREL PANEL AREAS REQUIRE SEMI-RIGID MINERAL WOOD
                                                                             representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    525    PREFINISHED METAL GUARDRAIL, SEE DETAILS AND SPECIFICATIONS                           INSULATION U.N.O.; SEE DETAILS, SECTIONS & UL ASSEMBLIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    529    ACM COLUMN COVERS TO COLOR MATCH BUILDING ACM PANELS; SEE PLAN FOR          B.        ALL ACM PANELS TO COMPLY WITH IBC SECTION 1407 FOR HEIGHT AND FIRE RESISTANCE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25 ASI #10 EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOCATIONS                                                                             SUBCONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE ACM MANUFACTURERS TESTING REPORTS STATING ACM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2 BID ADDENDA #2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5 BID ADDENDA #5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    530    ACM PARAPET CAP FLASHING; COLOR TO MATCH ADJACENT ACM PANELS; REFER                   PANEL MEETS OR EXCEEDS ALL REQUIREMENTS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13 ASI #003 CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TO DETAILS & SPECIFICATIONS FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    801    GLAZED ALUMINUM CURTAIN WALLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COLORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    802    SPANDRAL PANEL WITH SEMI RIGID INSULATION ON INSIDE FACE; SEE DETAILS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COM CHECK FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2201   NON-FREEZE EXTERIOR HOSE BIB; SEE PLUMBING DRAWINGS FOR MORE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INFORMATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2213   SECONDARY ROOF DRAIN EXTERIOR DOWNSPOUT NOZZLE; SEE PLUMBING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          06.27.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      05.11.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 09.14.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10.01.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10.24.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          01.08.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAWINGS FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2605   EXTERIOR LIGHTING, SEE ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONFORMED SET

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DEVELOPMENT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SITE PLAN APP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REVIEW SET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BID SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ADD BID ALTERNATE LIST:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SP2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.         EXTERIOR SHEATHING AND RIGID INSULATION ALTERNATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHANGE TO DOW THEMAX XARMOR CI 2" THICK W/ R13 SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.         LOBBY ALTERNATE LEVELS 3-6; SEE SHEETS A403 AND A406




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ACM PANEL COLOR LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KEYNOTE: 515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MANUF: ALPOLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COLOR: MZG MICA GREY



                                                                           D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KEYNOTE: 515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MANUF: ALPOLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COLOR: BSX SILVER METALLIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ALL COLORS TO BE MATCHED WITH SIGNED AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              APPROVED SAMPLES BY IRVINE'S NO EXCEPTIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A                                 B                                           C                                                             D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A3               A4                 A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A312             A313               A301


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2304


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 530
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              90' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 515




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7'-4"
                                                                       C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               83' - 4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 802


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      529                                                                                                                                                                                        801




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13'-8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      525                    612

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 515




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IRVINE BUSINESS PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               69' - 8"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 802




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      440 WEST 13800 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 801
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      525

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               56' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 802




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13'-8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 801



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               42' - 4"                                                                                                        OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 802                                                                                                                         PR
                                                                               B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L ICENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     No.273765




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 801                                                                                                                                   JORY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13'-8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                515                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ATE      AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               28' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 802
C:\Users\dglazier\Documents\IRVINE OFFICEv_18 OPT 3_dglaz.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13'-8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 801

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2605
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AS502
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2605
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A313
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 515

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15' - 0"                                                                                                  ARCHI TECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      F 801.438.9501




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  18"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3115 EAST LION LANE, #200




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  120"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BEECHERWALKER.COM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2201                      2213
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 1                                                                                                            429.1701
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DWN BY                                 CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DLG                                      -
                                                                               A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                529
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A                                       CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              529                                        529                                                                                                                                                                               DOCUMENTS
PRINTED AT 6/27/2019 3:56:22 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ELEVATIONS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A3    EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A201   1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAWING NUMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1   2    3                                                         4                                      5                                                             6                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                             2                      3                        4             5                                                  6                                                                                         7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REV. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KEYNOTES                                                                       _ ELEVATION GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11.06.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12.19.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        04.02.19

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          06.18.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       515    ACM PANEL SYSTEM, SEE ACM PANEL COLOR LEGEND                                A.   ALL CURTAIN WALL SPANDREL PANEL AREAS REQUIRE SEMI-RIGID MINERAL WOOD
                                                                             representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       529    ACM COLUMN COVERS TO COLOR MATCH BUILDING ACM PANELS; SEE PLAN FOR               INSULATION U.N.O.; SEE DETAILS, SECTIONS & UL ASSEMBLIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOCATIONS                                                                   B.   ALL ACM PANELS TO COMPLY WITH IBC SECTION 1407 FOR HEIGHT AND FIRE RESISTANCE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25 ASI #10 EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2 BID ADDENDA #2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5 BID ADDENDA #5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBCONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE ACM MANUFACTURERS TESTING REPORTS STATING ACM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       530    ACM PARAPET CAP FLASHING; COLOR TO MATCH ADJACENT ACM PANELS; REFER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TO DETAILS & SPECIFICATIONS FOR MORE INFORMATION                                 PANEL MEETS OR EXCEEDS ALL REQUIREMENTS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13 ASI #003 CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       712    TYPICAL - METAL PANEL REVEAL JOINT TO ALIGN WITH VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COLORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CURTAIN WALL MULLIONS; SEE ELEVATIONS FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       801    GLAZED ALUMINUM CURTAIN WALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       802    SPANDRAL PANEL WITH SEMI RIGID INSULATION ON INSIDE FACE; SEE DETAILS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COM CHECK FOR MORE INFORMATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2213   SECONDARY ROOF DRAIN EXTERIOR DOWNSPOUT NOZZLE; SEE PLUMBING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAWINGS FOR MORE INFORMATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        06.27.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    05.11.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               09.14.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10.01.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10.24.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        01.08.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2304   ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT, SEE MECHANICAL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2803   BOLLARD WITH CARD READER; SEE ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONFORMED SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ADD BID ALTERNATE LIST:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DEVELOPMENT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SITE PLAN APP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REVIEW SET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BID SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.     EXTERIOR SHEATHING AND RIGID INSULATION ALTERNATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CHANGE TO DOW THEMAX XARMOR CI 2" THICK W/ R13 SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.     LOBBY ALTERNATE LEVELS 3-6; SEE SHEETS A403 AND A406




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SP2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ACM PANEL COLOR LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KEYNOTE: 515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MANUF: ALPOLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COLOR: MZG MICA GREY


                                                                           D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KEYNOTE: 515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MANUF: ALPOLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COLOR: BSX SILVER METALLIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ALL COLORS TO BE MATCHED WITH SIGNED AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  APPROVED SAMPLES BY IRVINE'S NO EXCEPTIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A3                                 A3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8                     7                      6             5   A302           4               3   A303                              2                                                                      1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2304                                                                                        2304

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             530

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          90' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             515
                                                                       C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7'-4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          83' - 4"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             802
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IRVINE BUSINESS PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             801

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        712                                                                                                                                                                                                                  515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          69' - 8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    440 WEST 13800 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             802




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             801
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             515

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          56' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             802


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             801
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             515                                                                                               ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PR
                                                                               B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L ICENSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          42' - 4"                                                                                 No.273765




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             802                                                                                                    MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             801                                                                                           ATE      AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       712                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF UT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             515
C:\Users\dglazier\Documents\IRVINE OFFICEv_18 OPT 3_dglaz.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          28' - 8"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             802
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             801



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B1                                                                                                                                                                                        515                                                                                       ARCHI TECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A313                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15' - 0"                                  F 801.438.9501

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             529                                                    BEECHERWALKER.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2213                                                                       120                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         429.1701
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DWN BY                                 CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 1                                                                         DLG                                      -
                                                                               A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0' - 0"                               A                                       CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DOCUMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2803
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  529         529                    529           529                          529   529                                                       529
PRINTED AT 6/27/2019 3:56:34 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ELEVATIONS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAWING NUMBER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A1    NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A202   1/8" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                             2                      3                        4             5                                                  6                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1                                                          2                                                                                                                                               3                                                                                                                                                              4                                                                                                  5                                 6                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SITE PLAN GENERAL NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REV. DATE
                                                                This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11.02.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                04.02.19

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       04.18.19

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           06.21.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A.    REFER TO CIVIL, LANDSCAPE & ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS FOR ALL
                                                                             representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TECHNICAL DATA, ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN IS FOR FINAL COORDINATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BETWEEN ALL DISCIPLINES. FOLLOW ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN FOR ALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                19 ASI #007 2ND CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EQUIPMENT LAYOUT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1 BID ADDENDA #1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REV. DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                26 PR #003 IRVINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               B.    DO NOT SCALE DRAWINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13 ASI #003 CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C.    CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR FIELD VERIFICATION OF ALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REQUESTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMMENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3217              3106                DIMENSIONS AND FIELD CONDITIONS PRIOR TO ORDERING OR INSTALLING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D.    ALL ASPECTS OF THE WORK AND ITEMS NOT SPECIFICALLY MENTIONED,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BUT WHICH ARE NECESSARY TO MAKE A COMPLETE WORKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INSTALLATION, SHALL BE INCLUDED, AND INDICATED IN THE CONTRACTORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BID.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E.    ALL MATERIALS FOR USE IN THIS PROJECT SHALL BE NEW AND UNUSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A1                                                                                                                          UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                06.27.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            05.11.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       09.14.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10.01.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10.24.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 01.08.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AS501                                                                                                                  F.    THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR AND ALL SUBCONTRACTORS ARE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2609                                         RESPONSIBLE FOR PROPER REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF ALL DEBRIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3302                                                                                                                                                     GENERATED BY CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROJECT. THE REMOVAL AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DISPOSAL OF ALL CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS SHALL BE IN FULL COMPLIANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Y                                                                                                                         2609

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONFORMED SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WITH ALL FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL REGULATIONS. THE PREMISES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3213                                       2609




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SITE PLAN APP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3216                                                                                                 SHALL BE KEPT CLEAN AND FREE FROM ALL WASTE MATERIALS AT ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REVIEW SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2609




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TIMES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G.    GENERAL CONTRACTOR SHALL PROTECT NEW CONSTRUCTION FROM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BID SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3306                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DAMAGE BY ALL TRADES. ALL SUCH DAMAGE CAUSED BY THE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONTRACTOR AND SUBCONTRACTORS DURING THE COURSE OF THIS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AN G                                                                                                                            2609                                                                                                                                         3106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3305                                                        WORK SHALL BE REPAIRED OR REPLACED AT THE CONTRACTORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXPENSE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SP2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8                                                                                                                                             H.    ALL METAL SITE COMPONENTS, GATES, LOUVERS, CLEARANCE BARS ETC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TO BE GALV. AND PAINTED U.N.O.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3214                                                                                                                      7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2609                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3305
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AS503
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3303
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JJ T

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2609                                                                             3106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2609                             SITE PLAN LEGEND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 F SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3106                                                                                                      JT J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JJJJTTT                   TJ TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JJJ T                                                         DSDD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FF                                                                                                                                                                                              PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3223                                                                                                                                               JT                                        F SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3217                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2609                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BLDG A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LIMITS OF CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DDD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ADJACENT PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J JTT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SSD                           C        JT JT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3106                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FF   C                                     J JTT                                           T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C                                                       JJJ T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3306                                                                                                                                                                                                        CC                                                                                                                                                                                 3305
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C                C                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING OUTSIDE OF LIMITS OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION OR FUTURE PHASES;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2609                                                                                                                                                                                                       C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEE CIVIL, LANDSCAPE AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3203                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN DESIGN AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  F SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JJ T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J JTTT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FD C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3221                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3106                 3306             3106                                                                                                                                 EXTENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3212                                                                               3


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2609

                                                                           D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3220                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3215                                                                                                                                                                               STANDARD PAVING AREA; SEE CIVIL FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3201                                                                                  4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FINAL DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3214                                                                                        2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5                                                                                                         B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3106




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3107                                                              6


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3203                                                             2609                                                                                                                                                                               HEAVY DUTY PAVING TRUCK PATH AREA;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEE CIVIL FOR FINAL DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2610
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BLDG B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FUTURE PHASE                                                                                         1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3306                                                                                  2610
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LANDSCAPE AREA; SEE LANDSCAPING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2611                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AND CIVIL FOR FINAL DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2611
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2609                                                                                                                                                                       2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3217                                                                                          CONCRETE SIDEWALK OR PATIO AREA;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEE LANDSCAPING AND CIVIL FOR FINAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2609                                                                                                                     2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KEYNOTES                                                                             _
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2609   SITE LIGHT POLE; POLE BASE AND POLE NOT ALLOWED INSIDE OVERHEAD POWER LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOUNDARY AREA; SEE ELECTRICAL AND CIVIL DRAWINGS FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FINAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2609                                                                                                                                                                           2609                                                                                3305                                                                                                                                                             LAYOUT/DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2610   DUAL CAR CHARGING STATION; SEE ELECTRICAL PLANS FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2609                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2611   FUTURE DUAL CAR CHARGING STATION; SEE ELECTRICAL PLANS FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3106   LANDSCAPE AREA, SEE CIVIL AND LANDSCAPING FOR MORE INFORMATION

                                                                       C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FUTURE PHASES LANDSCAPE AREA; SEE CIVIL AND LANDSCAPING FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONCRETE SIDEWALK, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS                                              C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3203   ASPHALT PARKING, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3303
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3305                                                                                                                                     3212   HEAVY DUTY ASPHALT PAVING TRUCK ROUTE; SEE CIVIL FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3304                                                                                                                                                                         3214   ADA PARKING SYMBOL AT STALL, TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3215   NO PARKING STRIPING AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2609                                                                                       3217   PROPERTY LINE, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3220   FUTURE ASPHALT PARKING, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3304
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2609                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3221   FUTURE PHASES CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BLDG C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3223   PAVER AREA; SEE LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS FOR MORE INFORMATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IRVINE BUSINESS PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3224   OFF SITE PUBLIC ROAD/ RIGHT-OF-WAY PAVING DEMOLITION AND REPLACEMENT FOR UTILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3217
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FUTURE PHASE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3201                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONNECTION; SEE CIVIL PLANS FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3302   TRANSFORMER, SEE ELECTRICAL AND CIVIL FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3303   EXISTING OVERHEAD POWER LINE BOUNDRY; SEE ELECTRICAL AND CIVIL FOR MORE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            440 WEST 13800 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3304                                                                                                                                                                              INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3304   EXISTING OVERHEAD POWER LINE; SEE ELECTRICAL AND CIVIL FOR MORE INFORMATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2609                                                                                                                     3305   EXISTING LARGE OVERHEAD POWER LINE POLE; SEE ELECTIRCAL AND CIVIL FOR MORE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2609                                                                                                              3303                                                                                                                                                                        3306   FIRE HYDRANT; SEE CIVIL FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3203
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FUTURE PHASES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ADJACENT PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3212                          3201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2609                                 2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PR
                                                                               B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L ICENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           No.273765




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ATE      AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3212
C:\Users\dglazier\Documents\IRVINE OFFICEv_18 OPT 3_dglaz.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2609                                    2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3305




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3305
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3217
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ARCHI TECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FUTURE PHASES                                                                                                                          3305                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            F 801.438.9501

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3201                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2609                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BEECHERWALKER.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2609                                                                    2609                                                     2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      429.1701
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DWN BY                             CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DLG                                 DLG
                                                                               A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IRR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A                                       CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DOCUMENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3217
PRINTED AT 6/28/2019 8:15:34 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3224
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13800 SOUTH STREET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3224
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ARCHITECTURAL SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PLAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAWING NUMBER


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AS101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1" = 50'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AS101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1                                                          2                                                                                                                                               3                                                                                                                                                              4                                                                                                  5                                 6                                             7
        June 22, 2020                                                                                                       Structural Engineering
                                                                                                                                Municipal Services
                                                                                                                                 Civil Engineering
        Draper City                                                                                                                Land Surveying

        1020 Pioneer Rd
        Draper, UT 84020

        RE:             Bangerter Crossing Office
                        Landscape Buffer Deviation Request
                        Non-Application of Natural Resources Inventory

        Attention: Planning Staff and Commission

        We are partnering with the Wadsworth Development Group and Beecher Walker Architects on the
        development of a proposed office building at 119 East 13809 South, a part of the Bangerter Crossing
        commercial development.

        The project has been designed with the highest standards to create a building of lasting value and appeal
        on this important and visible entry into Draper City. Given the constraints of the land size and the existing
        improvements, we have designed the site to maximize the use of the property and enhance the surrounding
        projects.

        In working with the design staff, we have identified one location which is not is full compliance to the
        municipal code. The perimeter landscape setback requirements from section 9-23-090 requires 10-feet of
        perimeter landscaping. On the east side, the adjacent property contains 9.5 feet of landscape at the shared
        property line. We have not been able to accommodate an additional 10 feet in our plans without significantly
        impacting the building size and the parking provided. We have provided an additional 3.0 feet of landscape
        at this property line bringing the total buffer width to 12.5 feet. Because this development is an extension
        of the Bangerter Crossing project, our position is that there is sufficient landscaping and that we are meeting
        the intent of the design requirement for commercial property development. If this portion of the project was
        developed concurrently with the adjacent project, there would not have been a need for a deviation and
        landscape buffer requirement would be exceeded. Please note that there are at least 3 other locations in
        the Bangerter Crossing development where lot boundaries are split along landscape islands and where
        similar deviations were approved. Attached is a plan generally depicting the locations of similar conditions.
        We request that the Planning Commission grant an exception to this requirement and approve the 12.5 foot
        landscape as drawn on the plans.

        In addition, the Draper City Site Plan Application Packet and Checklist requires that a Natural Resources
        Inventory be prepared. If none of the items related to the Natural Resources Inventory apply to the property,
        then it is required that a signed statement be included. We feel that the elements within the Natural
        Resources Inventory do not apply to this property. Please accept this letter as a formal request to be
        exempt from this requirement.

        If you have any further questions regarding these items, please feel free to contact us.

        Regards,




        Brady Morris, P.E.
        Senior Associate
        Ensign Engineering & Land Surveying



      SANDY                         LAYTON                          CEDAR CITY                      TOOELE                RICHFIELD
45 W 10000 S, STE 500      1485 W Hill Field Rd, STE 204   88 E Fiddler’s Canyon Rd, STE 210   169 N. Main St, Unit 1      225 N 100 E
   Sandy, UT 84070              Layton, UT 84041                  Cedar City, UT 84721           Tooele, UT 84074       Richfield, UT 84701
   P: 801.255.0529               P: 801.547.1100                    P: 435.865.1453              P: 435.843.3590        P: 435.896.2983

                                                                  www.ensigneng.com
                    Page 2




www.ensigneng.com
                                                      o. 801.438.9500      3115 East Lion Lane, #200      www.beecherwalker.com
                                                      f. 801.438.9501        Holladay, Utah 84121



BUILDING MATERIAL – DEVIATION REQUEST                                          #3
TO: Draper City Planning & Zoning                          DATE:               June 26, 2020


RE: Bangerter Crossing II Office Building
    13673 South 100 East
    Draper Utah



We are requesting a deviation from the design standard requirement:

Each building face shall have a minimum of two (2) Primary materials. At least seventy five percent (75%) of each building’s finished
face shall be in primary materials.

Deviation Request Narrative:
The material selection and design of this building have been chosen to provide an aesthetic that enriches and speaks to its
environment. Heavier and more earthy materials include natural stone and concrete, providing a base to each façade, while lighter
more refined materials such as EIFS and wood-grained aluminum siding provide a backdrop for the openness of the structure. The
proportions of these materials are intentional and meaningful to the modern aesthetic. Each elevation meets the requirements to
have two primary materials with stone and aluminum panels on each façade. Each elevation also meets the required three colors
per elevation. All primary and secondary materials are durable and long lasting contributing to the current upscale aesthetic of the
development. The EIFS panels, which are in excess of the required secondary material allowance, are colored to complement the
stone veneer while providing contrast to the dark bronze aluminum panels. The material choices are intentional and enhance the
buildings of the adjacent developments. Overall, the material design provides a high level of architectural aesthetic as intended in
the ordinance.

While the standard in the code addresses primary materials, it is important to understand that this office building utilizes glass as
its most prominent building material. Glass is an important component of office architecture as natural light increases productivity
and produces an iconic and familiar exterior façade. Our building’s envelope contains the following glass percentages:
         North 67% glass
         East   49% glass
         South 52% glass
         West   40% glass

Glass is the predominant material and is an important part of visualizing the building. The quantity of glass on each façade ties
into the primary materials and provide the Class A office building Draper is accustomed to seeing in this area.

Other buildings in the area that have similar uses of primary materials and glass and were approved for construction include:
        Hoopes Medical Office Building
        Minuteman Office Building V

Please find drawings for these precedent buildings attached.


Code Criteria:
As required in the Code, our development achieves greater than the minimum of three deviation criteria in order to be approved:

1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is required in the development code
and site plan review.

    Site amenities provided in excess of code include eight additional parking stalls along the north of the detention basin to
    offer options for retail parking; pedestrian crosswalk access to the hotel to the west; bike parking; and four electric car
    charging stations.

6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan or ordinance.
    Building considers surrounding developments and is sensitive to nearby buildings. Building demonstrates imaginative
    design, mirrors surrounding development, and positively contributes to the character of Draper City. Entrances are
    prominent with increases in glass. Façade has articulation higher stair towers with raised roofs.

7. The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases which involve redeveloped buildings, additions
to existing buildings, minor structures added to a site, or new buildings within a previously approved phased project.

        The materials closely match the existing materials of the buildings within the development.

9. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or modern, which utilizes facade materials differently
then prescribed in subsection 9-22-040F of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.

    The building design matches the architectural style of the existing development which utilizes natural looking materials to
    create a warm modern aesthetic. The building is designed by a licensed architect.




Sincerely,
Beecher Walker & Associates


ISSUED BY:



Jory Walker, President and Principal Architect                 June 26, 2020
 (Signature)                                              (Date)
P:\BWA_COM\Minuteman Office Building\Office Building Shell\Drawings\Current\Minuteman Office Building 4\Sheets\MM4-A201 EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS.dwg, 11/2/2012 9:18:05 AM
P:\BWA_COM\Minuteman Office Building\Office Building Shell\Drawings\Current\Minuteman Office Building 4\Sheets\MM4-A202 EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS.dwg, 11/2/2012 9:18:10 AM
P:\BWA_COM\Minuteman Office Building\Office Building Shell\Drawings\Current\Minuteman Office Building 4\Sheets\MM4-AS101 ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN.dwg, 11/2/2012 9:16:30 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                       22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             82




                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13




                                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10




                                                                                                                                                                                                      10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RAMP




                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6




                                                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                                                             20
                                                                                                                                                                                        10
                                                                                                                                                                                                 10




                                                                                                                                                44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             82




                                                                                                                                                 19
                                                                                                                                                                                  16
                                                                                                                                                                                            16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             40
                                                        o. 801.438.9500      3115 East Lion Lane, #200      www.beecherwalker.com
                                                        f. 801.438.9501        Holladay, Utah 84121



ROOFLINE – DEVIATION REQUEST                                                     #1
TO: Draper City Planning & Zoning                            DATE:               June 26, 2020


RE: Bangerter Crossing II Office Building
    13673 South 100 East
    Draper Utah



We are requesting a deviation from the design standard requirement to:

Provide roofline and parapet variations where there are long continuous and undisturbed rooflines fifty feet or greater.

Deviation Request Narrative:
The design of this building is meant to have strong clean lines in a modern vernacular. The horizontal nature of the roof lines is
designed intentionally to complement the canopies and cantilevered roof elements adding more of a human scale to the building
as a whole and bringing more connection to the already pedestrian-focused development. The massing and linear rooflines of the
design are intended to create a strong presence on the site. The building’s vertical masses juxtaposed to the large overhangs and
linear nature of the building style bring a pleasing aesthetic to the development.

The building design is complementary and similar in nature to several other high-quality and professionally designed buildings
in the Draper area and which also have vertical massing. Our deviation request is comparable to existing building precedents
including:

         Hoopes Medical Office Building
         Draper Warehouse
         Minuteman Office Building VI
         Irvine Office Building

Please find drawings for these precedent buildings attached.


Code Criteria:
As required in the Code, our development achieves greater than the minimum of three deviation criteria in order to be approved:

1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is required in the development code
and site plan review.

    Site amenities provided in excess of code include eight additional parking stalls along the north of the detention basin to
    offer options for retail parking; pedestrian crosswalk access to the hotel to the west; bike parking; and four electric car
    charging stations.

6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan or ordinance.

    Building considers surrounding developments and is sensitive to nearby buildings. Building demonstrates imaginative
    design, mirrors surrounding development, and positively contributes to the character of Draper City. Entrances are
    prominent with increases in glass. Façade has articulation higher stair towers with raised roofs.



7. The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases which involve redeveloped buildings, additions
to existing buildings, minor structures added to a site, or new buildings within a previously approved phased project.

    The materials closely match the existing materials of the buildings within the development.

9. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or modern, which utilizes facade materials differently
then prescribed in subsection 9-22-040F of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.

    The building design matches the architectural style of the existing development which utilizes natural looking materials to
    create a warm modern aesthetic. The building is designed by a licensed architect.




Sincerely,
Beecher Walker & Associates


ISSUED BY:



Jory Walker, President and Principal Architect               June 26, 2020
 (Signature)                                            (Date)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1                                                                                                                   2                                                                                                                     3                                                                                                      4                                                                                                    5                                                                                                    6                                                                                                                  7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REV. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11.25.14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A4                                                                                                                                                         C4                                                           C1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ELEVATION GENERAL NOTES:
This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A302                                                                                                                   A302                             A302                                                            A302
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A.            SEE SHEET A601 & A602 FOR DOOR AND WINDOW TYPES.
              representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2009 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B.            SEE SHEET A501 FOR TYPICAL METAL WALL PANEL DETAILS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1 CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R   Q                             P                                              O                                                  N                                                   M                                    L     K                           J                                     I                               H   G                                     F                            E                                           D                                              C                                       B      A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KEY NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TYP.                                                                                                                                                              306            PRECAST CONCRETE TRIM, SEE DETAIL C7/A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            804                                                                                                                                                                     311            PRECAST CONCRETE CAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TYP.                                                                             TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 702                                                                             402                                                                401            BRICK MASONRY, SEE WALL TYPES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    402            BRICK MASONRY SOILDER COURSE, SEE DETAIL E7/A521
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    408            BRICK VENEER CONTROL JOINT, PER MANUFACTURER RECOMENDATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T.O. PARAPET                    512            STEEL STAIR CONSTRUCTION, WITH BAR GRATING TREADS, TO HAVE AN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11.25.2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10.21.2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  08.29.2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            127' - 5 1/2"                               A606-4 OR A588 FINISH, SEE SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              702                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ROOF BEARING @ GRID 2&6                      513            DECORATIVE STEEL BEAM WINDOW HEADER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TYP.                         124' - 3 1/2"                  514            2" SQUARE, METAL GUARDRAIL TO HAVE AN A606-4 OR A588 FINISH, SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 806                     ROOF BEARING @ GRID 4                                     SPECIFICATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             124' - 0"                   516            COMPOSITE METAL WALL PANEL SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              401




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TYP.                                                        702            PRE-FINISHED METAL PARAPET CAP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DOCUMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 512                                                                717            FIRE DEPARTMENT KEY BOX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BID SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    801            ALUMINUM STOREFRONT WINDOW SYSTEM - SEE WINDOW ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 702                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SECOND FLOOR                      804            GUARDIAN 275 - 4" SKYLIGHT, WHITE/WHITE, LIGHT TRANSMISSION = 3,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        113' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SOLAR HEAT GAIN COEFFICIENT = 0.05, CENTER OF PANEL U-FACTOR = 0.16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 516                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T.O. PARAPET @ CORNER                                      SEE DETAIL A3/A521
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       POPOUT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    805            ALUMINUM CURTAIN WALL SYSTEM - SEE WINDOW ELEVATIONS &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        111' - 6"                                  SPECIFICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. STEEL @ CORNER POPOUT                       806            ALUMINUM WINDOWS - SEE WINDOW ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        110' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1009           PAINTED LETTERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1010           PROVIDE BUILDING ADDRESS AS ASSIGNED BY CITY ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DEPARTMENT. THE UNIT NUMBER OR LETTER SHALL BE PLACED ON TOP OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ENTRANCE CANOPY. THESE NUMBERS AND LETTERS SHALL BE VISIBLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FROM THE STREET AND BE A MINIMUM 12" HIGH AND A STROKE OF 1/2". THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NUMBERS AND LETTERS SHALL BE ARABIC. THIS ADDRESS COLOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FIRST FLOOR                                    RUSTY DARK BROWN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         100' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1020           SIGNAGE - SMOKING SIGNAGE - SEE DETAILS A1/G501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B.O. FOOTING                    1405           ELEVATOR OVERRUN, COORDINATE W/ MANUFACTURER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TYP.                                                  TYP.                                                                                                          TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        97' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TYP.                                                                                                                                                                           2211           SECONDARY ROOF OVERFLOW DRAIN PIPING TO EXIT THROUGH EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1009                        2211                      801                                                                                                            513                                                                  1                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TYP.                                                 1009                     2211                                                                                                                                                                         WALL WITH DOWNSPOUT NOZZLE, SEE PLUMBING DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1                                                                                                              1                                           717
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         408                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2302           ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT, SEE MECHANICAL DRAWINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D1     EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A201    1/8" = 1'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXTERIOR AREA CALCULATIONS:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NORTH & SOUTH ELEVATION:
         D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WALL AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WINDOW AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         = 1,898.24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         = 1,031.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SQ.FT.        D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EAST & WEST ELEVATION:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WALL AREA                        = 5,699.80    SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1          WINDOW AREA                      = 2,811.08    SQ.FT.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ADDITIONAL AREAS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VESTIBULE WINDOWS                = 305.79      SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ENTRY ELEMENT WALL               = 834.70      SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C1                                                                              C4                         A1                                                                                                           A4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ENTRY ELEMENT WINDOW             = 3,234.70    SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A302                                                                            A302                      A302                                                                                                          A302                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CORNER ELEMENT WALL              = 88.72       SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CORNER ELEMENT WINDOW            = 1,822.92    SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ROOF AREAS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A   B                             C                                              D                                                  E                                                   F     805                            G     H                           I                                     J                               K   L                                     M                            N                                            O                                             P                                       Q      R                                                                                                   ROOF                             = 16,011.57   SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SKYLIGHT                         = 1,070.10    SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOTALS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          804
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           804                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T.O. STEEL @ HIGH ROOF                                                                                                                                                   MOCK UP PANEL, ALL TRADES &                                                                                                         NET WALL AREA                    = 8,521.46    SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            402                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                132' - 9"                                                                                                                                                MATERIALS TO BE                                                                                                                     GROSS WINDOW AREA                = 9,205.59    SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   702
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               702                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REVIEWED BY ARCHITECT/OWNER                                                                                                         GROSS WALL AREA                  = 17,727.05   SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BEFORE PROCEEDING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NET ROOF AREA                    = 16,011.57   SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       127' - 5 1/2"                                    GROSS SKYLIGHT AREA              = 1,070.10    SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GROSS ROOF AREA                  = 17,081.67   SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ROOF BEARING @ GRID 2&6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          124' - 3 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ROOF BEARING @ GRID 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        124' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               401




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     13867 SOUTH BANGERTER PARKWAY DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  702                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SECOND FLOOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAPER WAREHOUSE OFFICE BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        113' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  516                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. PARAPET @ CORNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       POPOUT
        C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               111' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. STEEL @ CORNER POPOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        110' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FIRST FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          100' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B.O. FOOTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TYP.                                                                                                                                                              97' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1009                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              717                                                                                                   408
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C1     WEST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A201    1/8" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A1                                                                B1                            D1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D1                                        B1                                                                       A1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                                  A301                                                             A301                           A301                                                                                                                                                                                                                ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A301                                     A301                                                                      A301                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PR
                 B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     516                                                                                                                                                                    516




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L I CENSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          516




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1                                                                                                      1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          No.273765
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TYP.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1   2                     516                      3                                2302              4                                 TYP.              5                                    6   7                                                                                                                                                                    7     6                                  5                                             4                                          3                              2       1                                                                                                                                                                                            JORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2302
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      804                514                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T.O. STEEL @ HIGH ROOF                                                                                                                                                        804                             402                                                                                                                          T.O. STEEL @ HIGH ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1405                                                                                                                                                                                              132' - 9"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  132' - 9"                                                                                      ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1                                                                                                                            AT       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TYP.                                               TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A7                                                   C3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              805
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A511                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A521                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TYP.                                      127' - 5 1/2"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               127' - 5 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             805
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROOF BEARING @ GRID 2&6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ROOF BEARING @ GRID 2&6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         124' - 3 1/2"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                124' - 3 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ROOF BEARING @ GRID 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ROOF BEARING @ GRID 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            124' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    124' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A511                                                                                               1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1010                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   702                                                                    A511                                                                                                                                                                     1010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             516                                        SECOND FLOOR                                                   516                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SECOND FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              113' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   113' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T.O. PARAPET @ CORNER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T.O. PARAPET @ CORNER                                                                                    ARCHITECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              POPOUT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    POPOUT                                                           T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               111' - 6"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 111' - 6"                                                       F 801.438.9501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T.O. STEEL @ CORNER POPOUT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T.O. STEEL @ CORNER POPOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             110' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 110' - 0"                                                         3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TYP.                                                                         HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               306                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      311
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1                                                                    TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TYP.                                                                         BEECHERWALKER.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     401
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  311
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        401
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FIRST FLOOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FIRST FLOOR                                                                                                364.1401
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                100' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B.O. FOOTING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                B.O. FOOTING                                                                                DWN BY                                                                CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 97' - 0"                                                                                           TYP.         TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        97' - 0"                                                                              ESF                                                                    MG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TYP.                 TYP.
                 A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            513
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                801
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TYP.                                                                                                                                                    408          801
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    408                  801                                                                                                                                         A                                 CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          408                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DOCUMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A1     SOUTH ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A4     NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A201    1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A201     1/8" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXTERIOR BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELEVATIONS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAWING NUMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1                                                                                                                   2                                                                                                                     3                                                                                                      4                                                                                                    5                                                                                                    6                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1   2           3                                                                                     4                                                       5                                                                   6                                                  7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REV. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SITE PLAN GENERAL NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.30.14
This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A.      REFER TO CIVIL, LANDSCAPE & ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS FOR ALL TECHNICAL DATA,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN IS FOR FINAL COORDINATION BETWEEN ALL DISCIPLINES. FOLLOW
              representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2009 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN FOR ALL EQUIPMENT LAYOUT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B.      DO NOT SCALE DRAWINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C.      CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR FIELD VERIFICATION OF ALL DIMENSIONS AND FIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONDITIONS PRIOR TO ORDERING OR INSTALLING MATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1 ADDENDUM #2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D.      ALL ASPECTS OF THE WORK AND ITEMS NOT SPECIFICALLY MENTIONED, BUT WHICH ARE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NECESSARY TO MAKE A COMPLETE WORKING INSTALLATION, SHALL BE INCLUDED, AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INDICATED IN THE CONTRACTORS BID.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E.      ALL MATERIALS FOR USE IN THIS PROJECT SHALL BE NEW AND UNUSED UNLESS NOTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OTHERWISE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F.      THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR AND ALL SUBCONTRACTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR PROPER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF ALL DEBRIS GENERATED BY CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROJECT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF ALL CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS SHALL BE IN FULL COMPLIANCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11.25.2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.21.2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 08.29.2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WITH ALL FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL REGULATIONS. THE PREMISIS SHALL BE KEPT CLEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AND FREE FROM ALL WASTE MATERIALS AT ALL TIMES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G.      GENERAL CONTRACTOR SHALL PROTECT NEW CONSTRUCTION FROM DAMAGE BY ALL TRADES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ALL SUCH DAMAGE CAUSED BY THE CONTRACTOR AND SUBCONTRACTORS DURING THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COURSE OF THIS WORK SHALL BE REPAIRED OR REPLACED AT THE CONTRACTORS EXPENSE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DOCUMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BID SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KEY NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           318      CONCRETE PADS TO STEP DOWN TO MEET GRADING REQUIREMENTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           409      BRICK/CMU DUMPSTER ENCLOSURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           713      DOWNSPOUT LOCATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2703     MONUMENT SIGN, SEE DETAIL A1/AS501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3103     LANDSCAPING, SEE LANDSCAPE PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3201     CONCRETE SIDEWALK, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3202     CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3203     FUTURE STRIPPING, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3207     ADA PARKING SIGN, SEE DETAIL C4/AS501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3208     PRE-CAST CONC. REDI BLOCK W/ EXPOSED AGREGATE RETAINING WALL,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SEE LANDSCAPE & CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3209     BIKE RACK, SEE DETAIL E5/AS501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S 00°57'29"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3213     10' X 10' X 4" THICK CONCRETE PAD WITH ADA ACCESS, PROVIDE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E                                                                                                                                DESIGNATED SMOKING AREA SIGNAGE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                263.39'                                                                                                                    3214     STRIPE WALKWAY TO PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY ACROSS DRIVE ENTRANCE, SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3301     GAS METER WITH CONCRETE PAD, PAINT AS PER ARCHITECT, SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MECHANICAL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3303     TRANSFORMER, PAINT TO MATCH DUMPSTER GATES, SEE ELECTRICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRAWINGS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3304     ELECTRICAL CT CABINET, PAINT TO MATCH DUMPSTER GATES, SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3305                                                                                                                                                                                                    3305     FUTURE EMERGENCY GENERATOR, SEE ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3306     LIGHT POLE, SEE ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS
         D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A6                                                                      3203
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AS501




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         409




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1                                                                                         TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TYP.                            B1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3306
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3213          3103                                     G501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3303

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    713
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3209




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13867 SOUTH BANGERTER PARKWAY DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DRAPER WAREHOUSE OFFICE BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         284.51'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WEST



        C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3304
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3306
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3301




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          318

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UP                                                                                                                                                 UP


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PR
                 B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L I CENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        No.273765
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        713




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3214




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3208                   2703   3207                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3208                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3306                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AT       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E OF UT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                109.97                                                                 TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N 00°15'30"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  45 S 89°45'37"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E                                                           3201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1'21"                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BWA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "6.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11 W '01 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N 12°0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ARCHITECTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    °13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 35.84'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NORTH                                                                                                                                                     T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F 801.438.9501

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BEECHERWALKER.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A3     ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AS101       1" = 20'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 364.1401
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DWN BY                                                              CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ESF                                                                  MG
                 A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A                                CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DOCUMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ARCHITECTURAL SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PLAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAWING NUMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AS101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1   2           3                                                                                     4                                                       5                                                                   6                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1                                                                        2                                         3                                                                                                          4                                                                         5                                                                                                  6                                                                                                    7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REV. DATE
                                                            This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized
                                                                         representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12          11             D1                        10                  9                                 8                                                                7                                   6.7               C3            6.3                 6                                                      5          D4                                                                       4                                  3                                          2                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A302                                                                                                                                                                                                   A301                                                                                              A302




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RELOCATED CELL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           914                                                                      914                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EQUIPMENT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TYP.                                   186' - 0 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A5                                 929                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX-01                                                                                T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A501                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             182' - 9 3/4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T. O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A501




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     06.27.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         179' - 3 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A501     914
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PENTHOUSE T.O.C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         174' - 10"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DECK BEARING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         174' - 3 3/4"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              940
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A501




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C6                                                                                                                                                                            A501                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A521
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A521
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        161' - 6"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             158' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         807




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         144' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C4                                                                 D3                                                                                                                                940                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D3                                          C4                             C4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A511                                                                  A511                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A511                                         A511                              A511
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A511
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX-01
                                                                       D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         130' - 0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX-02                                                                                                               EX-02


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          927                                        EX-02                   927                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX-02                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          927
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 927


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         116' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX-01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX-02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         100' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TYP.                                           TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           927                                                                                                               914                                                                                                                    2601                                           927




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C1    EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A201   1/8" = 1'-0"

                                                                   C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RELOCATED CELL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A1                                                                                                                                                 C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      H                 G                                     F                         TOWER          E                                        D                                              C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A302
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B                A                                ELEVATION GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EQUIPMENT                                     914
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A.         SEE SHEET A601 FOR DOOR AND WINDOW TYPES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                B.         COORDINATE WINDOW HEIGHTS WITH WINDOW SCHEDULE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA VI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  914                                   187' - 3 3/4"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. PARAPET                                                                   929
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 182' - 9 3/4"                                                                                    EX-01                           EX-01                                                                                 A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    929
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T. O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  179' - 3 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PENTHOUSE T.O.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  174' - 10"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13893 S. MINUTEMAN Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DECK BEARING                               E3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  174' - 3 3/4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T.O. CONTROL JOINT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KEY NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX-01                                                                                                                                                                                                  C6                                                                               807          ALUMINUM CURTAIN WALL OR STOREFRONT WINDOW SYSTEM AS SCHEDULED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     914          ALUMINUM COMPOSITE PANEL SYSTEM - SEE ELEVATIONS & SECTIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A521                                                                                                                                                          A521
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      927          GFRC BOARD AS SPECIFIED. INSTALL IN A HORIZONTAL - 1/3 SHIFTED PATTERN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     929          A.C.M. REVEAL, SEE DETAIL E1/A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     940          A.C.M. CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3205         FINISH GRADE, SEE CIVIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  158' - 0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PR
                                                                           B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               807




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L ICENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  No.273765




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  144' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MATERIAL PERCENTAGES - 100% PRIMARY (NO GLAZING)                                                                                         WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ATE      AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OF UT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C4
E:\Documents\MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA 6_V18_ryoungAWRM8.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A511                             D3                                   C4C4                                            D3                                                                                                                                              •        EX - 01: ACM PANEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOTAL: 11,898 SQ. FT = 70.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              929                                                                                A511                                  A531
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A531                                           A511                                                                                                                                                     •       EAST ELEVATION - 4,314 = 25.4%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •       WEST ELEVATION - 4,314 = 25.4%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •       NORTH ELEVATION - 1,635 = 9.6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •       SOUTH ELEVATION - 1,635 = 9.6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  130' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                807

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •        EX - 02: GFRC BOARDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOTAL: 5,104 SQ. FT. = 30.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •       EAST ELEVATION - 1,937 = 11.4%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           927                                                                  •       WEST ELEVATION - 1,937 = 11.4%                                              ARCHI TECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •       NORTH ELEVATION - 615 = 3.6%             T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •       SOUTH ELEVATION - 615 = 3.6%             F 801.438.9501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           914                                EX-01 ACM PANEL - 11,898 TOTAL SQ. FT. = 70.0%                                     3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX-01                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX-O2 GFRC PANEL - 5,104 TOTAL SQ. FT. = 30.0%                                     HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOTAL EXTERIOR MATERIAL SQ. FT. = 17,002 SQ. F.T. = 100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  116' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BEECHERWALKER.COM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        112' - 6"         INSULATED GLAZING SQ. FT.                                                                                                     PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            309.1902
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DWN BY                             CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              914                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SKB                                 AL
                                                                           A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •        INSULATED GLAZING/SPANDREL                   A                                                PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOTAL: 46,278 SQ. FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3205                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              •      EAST ELEVATION - 16,204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •      WEST ELEVATION - 16,204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 1
PRINTED AT 12/16/2019 9:29:55 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •      NORTH ELEVATION - 6,935
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                •      SOUTH ELEVATION - 6,935
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX-02                                 927                                                                                    EX-02                             2601                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELEVATIONS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAWING NUMBER


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1                                                                        2                                         3                                                                                                          4                                                                         5                                                                                                  6                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                         2                                                        3                                                                                                                    4                                                         5                                                                                        6                                                                             7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REV. DATE
                                                            This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized
                                                                         representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1                2                 3                      4                                  D4     5              A5                                                          6                                          6.3               C3           6.7                        7                                     8                                                                 9            10                       D1            11                       12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A302                  A501                                          914
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      914                                                                        A301                                                                                                                                                                                 A302
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RELOCATED CELL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOWER       T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EQUIPMENT    187' - 3 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A5                                                                                                                               T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T. O. PARAPET                                                                   EX-01                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EX-01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   179' - 3 3/4"                         927              A501                                                                                                                             181' - 6 3/4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        06.27.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PENTHOUSE T.O.C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               914
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      174' - 10"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DECK BEARING                                                                                                                           A501                                                                                                                                       A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      174' - 3 3/4"                                                                                                                                                                                                              940




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A521                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A521




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   158' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      144' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C4                                                D3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D3                   C4                          C4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A511                                              A511                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A511                  A511                        A511
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A531

                                                                       D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      130' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX-02


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX-02                          927


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      116' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T.O. CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     112' - 6"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A511



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      100' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            914
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2601




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C1      WEST ELEVATION
                                                                   C                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A202      1/8" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ELEVATION GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A1                                                                                              A1                                                                                                                     A.     SEE SHEET A601 FOR DOOR AND WINDOW TYPES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RELOCATED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               B.     COORDINATE WINDOW HEIGHTS WITH WINDOW SCHEDULE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA VI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A                B                                          C                                            D                      E           CELL TOWER                      F                              G          H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A302                                                                                            A301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  914                       EQUIPMENT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          186' - 0 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T.O. PARAPET                                                                                                                                                                                                            A5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-01                                                              927
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               182' - 9 3/4"                                                                   940                                              EX-01                                                                              A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T. O. PARAPET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13893 S. MINUTEMAN Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               179' - 3 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PENTHOUSE T.O.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               174' - 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DECK BEARING                                E3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KEY NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               174' - 3 3/4"                           A501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               914     ALUMINUM COMPOSITE PANEL SYSTEM - SEE ELEVATIONS & SECTIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               927     GFRC BOARD AS SPECIFIED. INSTALL IN A HORIZONTAL - 1/3 SHIFTED PATTERN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               940     A.C.M. CONTROL JOINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3205    FINISH GRADE, SEE CIVIL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C6                                                                                                                                                            C6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A521                                                                                                                                                              A521
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               161' - 3 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LEVEL 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               158' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PR
                                                                           B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L ICENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     No.273765




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MATERIAL PERCENTAGES - 100% PRIMARY (NO GLAZING)                                                                             ATE      AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LEVEL 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               144' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX-01
E:\Documents\MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA 6_V18_ryoungAWRM8.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C4                                                •       EX - 01: ACM PANEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C4                                        D3                                             C4                                                    D3                                           C4                                                                                 TOTAL: 11,898 SQ. FT = 70.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A511                                                                                                                                                                      A511                                                       •       EAST ELEVATION - 4,314 = 25.4%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A531                                                                                     A511                                                 A511                                           A511
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •       WEST ELEVATION - 4,314 = 25.4%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •       NORTH ELEVATION - 1,635 = 9.6%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               130' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •       SOUTH ELEVATION - 1,635 = 9.6%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX - 02: GFRC BOARDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOTAL: 5,104 SQ. FT. = 30.0%                                                            ARCHI TECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •       EAST ELEVATION - 1,937 = 11.4%               T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •       WEST ELEVATION - 1,937 = 11.4%               F 801.438.9501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •       NORTH ELEVATION - 615 = 3.6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •       SOUTH ELEVATION - 615 = 3.6%                 3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-02                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX-01 ACM PANEL - 11,898 TOTAL SQ. FT. = 70.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 914          EX-O2 GFRC PANEL - 5,104 TOTAL SQ. FT. = 30.0%                                        BEECHERWALKER.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOTAL EXTERIOR MATERIAL SQ. FT. = 17,002 SQ. F.T. = 100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  116' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               309.1902
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INSULATED GLAZING SQ. FT.                                                                                                DWN BY                             CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SKB                                 AL
                                                                           A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A                                                PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   914
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •       INSULATED GLAZING/SPANDREL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOTAL: 46,278 SQ. FT.
PRINTED AT 12/16/2019 9:30:10 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3205                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         •      EAST ELEVATION - 16,204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •      WEST ELEVATION - 16,204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               •      NORTH ELEVATION - 6,935                                                                    EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    •      SOUTH ELEVATION - 6,935                                                                   ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2601                                                                                     EX-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAWING NUMBER



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SOUTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                         2                                                        3                                                                                                                    4                                                         5                                                                                        6                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1                                                 2                                                                                                   3                                                                                                                          4                                                                   5                                              6                                                   7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REV. DATE
                                                            This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SITE PLAN GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A.     SEE LANDSCAPE PLANS FOR INFORMATION ON PLANTING & HARDSCAPING.
                                                                         representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         B.     SLOPE DRIVEWAY TO MEET ADA CURB. MAXIMUM SLOPE 1/20.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C.     REFER TO CIVIL DRAWINGS FOR ALL TECHNICAL DATA, ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS ARE FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               38                                                                                                                                    29                         COORDINATION ONLY.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D.     SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS FOR ALL SITE GRADING AND UTILITIES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E.     SEE LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS FOR ALL LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           23            F.     SEE ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS FOR ALL SITE LIGHTING, TRANSFORMER AND METER LOCATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G.     SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS FOR CONSTRUCTION LIMIT LINE, NEW / EXISTING CURB AND GUTTER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         32

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KEY NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                              28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2610    LIGHT POLE, SEE ELECTRICAL AND STRUCTURAL FOR BASE DETAIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          06.27.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3103    LANDSCAPING, SEE LANDSCAPE PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3202    CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                                                        3204    PIPE BOLLARD, LIGHTED WHERE OCCURS - SEE CIVIL & ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               28                        3206    ADA PARKING SYMBOL AT STALL, TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3208    PAINTED PARKING STRIPING - 4" - YELLOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3211    ADA PARKING SIGN, TYPICAL AT EACH STALL, SEE DETAIL D5/AS501 - SEE CIVIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3212    HIGH FUEL EFFICIENT VEHICLE MARKINGS, PAINTED ON ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3224    PROPERTY LINE, SEE CIVIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3229    NO PARKING STRIPING AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3232    SEATING BENCH, SEE LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS. PROVIDE CONCRETE PAD AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               28                                NECESSARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                                                        3234    STAMPED AND COLORED ASPHALT, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3237    'VISITOR' MARKINGS PAINTED ON ASPHALT, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3240    FIRE HYDRANT, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                              28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                              28


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                             28

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -5



                                                                       D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                              28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                             28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37                                                                                                                             28


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               36                                                                                                                             28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               36                                                                                                                             28


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               34                                                                                                                             27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AS501
                                                                   C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3212
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3208
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3237
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   19                                                                H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VISITOR   VISITOR             VISITOR   VISITOR   VISITOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA VI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          24                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  24         AS502


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         36                                                                                                                                    C1                                                                                                                                                                              3103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AS503
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3234                                                                                                                                                                   3232




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13893 S. MINUTEMAN Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FFFEFEECECCC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3224
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING OFFICE BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FEC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FEC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PR
                                                                           B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L ICENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       No.273765




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ATE      AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         36                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3232
E:\Documents\MINUTEMAN OFFICE PLAZA 6_V18_ryoungAWRM8.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3206
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Y D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     H Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3229            A4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AS503
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3211
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3240                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   28

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VISIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VISIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VISIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3211                                                                                                                                                                                                       29                                                                                                                                                       BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VISIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VISIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OR                                                                                                           H Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ARCHI TECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      F 801.438.9501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BEECHERWALKER.COM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 309.1902
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DWN BY                             CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SKB                                 AL
                                                                           A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A                                                PERMIT SET
PRINTED AT 12/16/2019 9:36:01 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3224
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Y D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAWING NUMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AS101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1" = 30'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2610
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AS101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1                                                 2                                                                                                   3                                                                                                                          4                                                                   5                                              6                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1   2    3                                                         4                                      5                                                             6                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KEYNOTES                                                                       _ ELEVATION GENERAL NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REV. DATE
                                                                This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11.06.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12.19.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          04.02.19

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            06.18.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    515    ACM PANEL SYSTEM, SEE ACM PANEL COLOR LEGEND                                A.        ALL CURTAIN WALL SPANDREL PANEL AREAS REQUIRE SEMI-RIGID MINERAL WOOD
                                                                             representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    525    PREFINISHED METAL GUARDRAIL, SEE DETAILS AND SPECIFICATIONS                           INSULATION U.N.O.; SEE DETAILS, SECTIONS & UL ASSEMBLIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    529    ACM COLUMN COVERS TO COLOR MATCH BUILDING ACM PANELS; SEE PLAN FOR          B.        ALL ACM PANELS TO COMPLY WITH IBC SECTION 1407 FOR HEIGHT AND FIRE RESISTANCE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25 ASI #10 EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOCATIONS                                                                             SUBCONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE ACM MANUFACTURERS TESTING REPORTS STATING ACM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2 BID ADDENDA #2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5 BID ADDENDA #5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    530    ACM PARAPET CAP FLASHING; COLOR TO MATCH ADJACENT ACM PANELS; REFER                   PANEL MEETS OR EXCEEDS ALL REQUIREMENTS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13 ASI #003 CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TO DETAILS & SPECIFICATIONS FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    801    GLAZED ALUMINUM CURTAIN WALLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COLORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    802    SPANDRAL PANEL WITH SEMI RIGID INSULATION ON INSIDE FACE; SEE DETAILS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COM CHECK FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2201   NON-FREEZE EXTERIOR HOSE BIB; SEE PLUMBING DRAWINGS FOR MORE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INFORMATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2213   SECONDARY ROOF DRAIN EXTERIOR DOWNSPOUT NOZZLE; SEE PLUMBING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          06.27.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      05.11.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 09.14.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10.01.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10.24.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          01.08.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAWINGS FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2605   EXTERIOR LIGHTING, SEE ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONFORMED SET

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DEVELOPMENT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SITE PLAN APP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REVIEW SET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BID SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ADD BID ALTERNATE LIST:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SP2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.         EXTERIOR SHEATHING AND RIGID INSULATION ALTERNATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHANGE TO DOW THEMAX XARMOR CI 2" THICK W/ R13 SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.         LOBBY ALTERNATE LEVELS 3-6; SEE SHEETS A403 AND A406




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ACM PANEL COLOR LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KEYNOTE: 515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MANUF: ALPOLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COLOR: MZG MICA GREY



                                                                           D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KEYNOTE: 515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MANUF: ALPOLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COLOR: BSX SILVER METALLIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ALL COLORS TO BE MATCHED WITH SIGNED AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              APPROVED SAMPLES BY IRVINE'S NO EXCEPTIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A                                 B                                           C                                                             D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A3               A4                 A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A312             A313               A301


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2304


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 530
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              90' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 515




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7'-4"
                                                                       C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               83' - 4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 802


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      529                                                                                                                                                                                        801




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13'-8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      525                    612

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 515




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IRVINE BUSINESS PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               69' - 8"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 802




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      440 WEST 13800 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 801
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      525

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               56' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 802




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13'-8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 801



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               42' - 4"                                                                                                        OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 802                                                                                                                         PR
                                                                               B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L ICENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     No.273765




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 801                                                                                                                                   JORY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13'-8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                515                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ATE      AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               28' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 802
C:\Users\dglazier\Documents\IRVINE OFFICEv_18 OPT 3_dglaz.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13'-8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 801

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2605
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AS502
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2605
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A313
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 515

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15' - 0"                                                                                                  ARCHI TECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      F 801.438.9501




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  18"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3115 EAST LION LANE, #200




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  120"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BEECHERWALKER.COM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2201                      2213
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEVEL 1                                                                                                            429.1701
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DWN BY                                 CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DLG                                      -
                                                                               A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                529
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A                                       CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              529                                        529                                                                                                                                                                               DOCUMENTS
PRINTED AT 6/27/2019 3:56:22 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ELEVATIONS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A3    EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A201   1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAWING NUMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1   2    3                                                         4                                      5                                                             6                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                             2                      3                        4             5                                                  6                                                                                         7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REV. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KEYNOTES                                                                       _ ELEVATION GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11.06.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12.19.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        04.02.19

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          06.18.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       515    ACM PANEL SYSTEM, SEE ACM PANEL COLOR LEGEND                                A.   ALL CURTAIN WALL SPANDREL PANEL AREAS REQUIRE SEMI-RIGID MINERAL WOOD
                                                                             representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       529    ACM COLUMN COVERS TO COLOR MATCH BUILDING ACM PANELS; SEE PLAN FOR               INSULATION U.N.O.; SEE DETAILS, SECTIONS & UL ASSEMBLIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOCATIONS                                                                   B.   ALL ACM PANELS TO COMPLY WITH IBC SECTION 1407 FOR HEIGHT AND FIRE RESISTANCE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25 ASI #10 EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2 BID ADDENDA #2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5 BID ADDENDA #5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBCONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE ACM MANUFACTURERS TESTING REPORTS STATING ACM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       530    ACM PARAPET CAP FLASHING; COLOR TO MATCH ADJACENT ACM PANELS; REFER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TO DETAILS & SPECIFICATIONS FOR MORE INFORMATION                                 PANEL MEETS OR EXCEEDS ALL REQUIREMENTS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13 ASI #003 CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       712    TYPICAL - METAL PANEL REVEAL JOINT TO ALIGN WITH VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COLORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CURTAIN WALL MULLIONS; SEE ELEVATIONS FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       801    GLAZED ALUMINUM CURTAIN WALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       802    SPANDRAL PANEL WITH SEMI RIGID INSULATION ON INSIDE FACE; SEE DETAILS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COM CHECK FOR MORE INFORMATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2213   SECONDARY ROOF DRAIN EXTERIOR DOWNSPOUT NOZZLE; SEE PLUMBING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAWINGS FOR MORE INFORMATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        06.27.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    05.11.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               09.14.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10.01.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10.24.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        01.08.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2304   ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT, SEE MECHANICAL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2803   BOLLARD WITH CARD READER; SEE ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONFORMED SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ADD BID ALTERNATE LIST:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DEVELOPMENT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SITE PLAN APP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REVIEW SET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BID SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.     EXTERIOR SHEATHING AND RIGID INSULATION ALTERNATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CHANGE TO DOW THEMAX XARMOR CI 2" THICK W/ R13 SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.     LOBBY ALTERNATE LEVELS 3-6; SEE SHEETS A403 AND A406




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SP2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ACM PANEL COLOR LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KEYNOTE: 515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MANUF: ALPOLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COLOR: MZG MICA GREY


                                                                           D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KEYNOTE: 515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MANUF: ALPOLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COLOR: BSX SILVER METALLIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ALL COLORS TO BE MATCHED WITH SIGNED AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  APPROVED SAMPLES BY IRVINE'S NO EXCEPTIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A3                                 A3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8                     7                      6             5   A302           4               3   A303                              2                                                                      1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2304                                                                                        2304

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             530

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          90' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             515
                                                                       C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7'-4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          83' - 4"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             802
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IRVINE BUSINESS PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             801

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        712                                                                                                                                                                                                                  515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          69' - 8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    440 WEST 13800 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             802




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             801
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             515

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          56' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             802


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             801
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             515                                                                                               ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PR
                                                                               B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L ICENSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          42' - 4"                                                                                 No.273765




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             802                                                                                                    MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             801                                                                                           ATE      AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       712                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF UT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             515
C:\Users\dglazier\Documents\IRVINE OFFICEv_18 OPT 3_dglaz.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          28' - 8"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             802
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             801



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B1                                                                                                                                                                                        515                                                                                       ARCHI TECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A313                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15' - 0"                                  F 801.438.9501

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             529                                                    BEECHERWALKER.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2213                                                                       120                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         429.1701
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DWN BY                                 CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEVEL 1                                                                         DLG                                      -
                                                                               A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0' - 0"                               A                                       CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DOCUMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2803
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  529         529                    529           529                          529   529                                                       529
PRINTED AT 6/27/2019 3:56:34 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ELEVATIONS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAWING NUMBER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A1    NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A202   1/8" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                             2                      3                        4             5                                                  6                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1                                                          2                                                                                                                                               3                                                                                                                                                              4                                                                                                  5                                 6                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SITE PLAN GENERAL NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REV. DATE
                                                                This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. and shall not be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11.02.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                04.02.19

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       04.18.19

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           06.21.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A.    REFER TO CIVIL, LANDSCAPE & ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS FOR ALL
                                                                             representative of BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Copyright © 2016 by BEECHER, WALKER & ASSOCIATES L.L.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TECHNICAL DATA, ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN IS FOR FINAL COORDINATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BETWEEN ALL DISCIPLINES. FOLLOW ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN FOR ALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                19 ASI #007 2ND CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EQUIPMENT LAYOUT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1 BID ADDENDA #1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REV. DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                26 PR #003 IRVINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               B.    DO NOT SCALE DRAWINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13 ASI #003 CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C.    CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR FIELD VERIFICATION OF ALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REQUESTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMMENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3217              3106                DIMENSIONS AND FIELD CONDITIONS PRIOR TO ORDERING OR INSTALLING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D.    ALL ASPECTS OF THE WORK AND ITEMS NOT SPECIFICALLY MENTIONED,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BUT WHICH ARE NECESSARY TO MAKE A COMPLETE WORKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INSTALLATION, SHALL BE INCLUDED, AND INDICATED IN THE CONTRACTORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BID.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E.    ALL MATERIALS FOR USE IN THIS PROJECT SHALL BE NEW AND UNUSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A1                                                                                                                          UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                06.27.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            05.11.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       09.14.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10.01.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10.24.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 01.08.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AS501                                                                                                                  F.    THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR AND ALL SUBCONTRACTORS ARE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2609                                         RESPONSIBLE FOR PROPER REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF ALL DEBRIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3302                                                                                                                                                     GENERATED BY CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROJECT. THE REMOVAL AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DISPOSAL OF ALL CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS SHALL BE IN FULL COMPLIANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Y                                                                                                                         2609

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONFORMED SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WITH ALL FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL REGULATIONS. THE PREMISES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3213                                       2609




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SITE PLAN APP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3216                                                                                                 SHALL BE KEPT CLEAN AND FREE FROM ALL WASTE MATERIALS AT ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REVIEW SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2609




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TIMES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G.    GENERAL CONTRACTOR SHALL PROTECT NEW CONSTRUCTION FROM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BID SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3306                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DAMAGE BY ALL TRADES. ALL SUCH DAMAGE CAUSED BY THE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONTRACTOR AND SUBCONTRACTORS DURING THE COURSE OF THIS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AN G                                                                                                                            2609                                                                                                                                         3106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3305                                                        WORK SHALL BE REPAIRED OR REPLACED AT THE CONTRACTORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXPENSE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SP2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8                                                                                                                                             H.    ALL METAL SITE COMPONENTS, GATES, LOUVERS, CLEARANCE BARS ETC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TO BE GALV. AND PAINTED U.N.O.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3214                                                                                                                      7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2609                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3305
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AS503
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3303
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JJ T

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2609                                                                             3106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2609                             SITE PLAN LEGEND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 F SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3106                                                                                                      JT J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JJJJTTT                   TJ TT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JJJ T                                                         DSDD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FF                                                                                                                                                                                              PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3223                                                                                                                                               JT                                        F SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3217                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2609                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BLDG A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LIMITS OF CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DDD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ADJACENT PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J JTT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SSD                           C        JT JT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3106                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FF   C                                     J JTT                                           T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C                                                       JJJ T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3306                                                                                                                                                                                                        CC                                                                                                                                                                                 3305
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C                C                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING OUTSIDE OF LIMITS OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION OR FUTURE PHASES;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2609                                                                                                                                                                                                       C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEE CIVIL, LANDSCAPE AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3203                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN DESIGN AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  F SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JJ T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J JTTT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FD C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3221                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3106                 3306             3106                                                                                                                                 EXTENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3212                                                                               3


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2609

                                                                           D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3220                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3215                                                                                                                                                                               STANDARD PAVING AREA; SEE CIVIL FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3201                                                                                  4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FINAL DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3214                                                                                        2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5                                                                                                         B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3106




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3107                                                              6


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3203                                                             2609                                                                                                                                                                               HEAVY DUTY PAVING TRUCK PATH AREA;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEE CIVIL FOR FINAL DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2610
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BLDG B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FUTURE PHASE                                                                                         1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3306                                                                                  2610
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LANDSCAPE AREA; SEE LANDSCAPING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2611                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AND CIVIL FOR FINAL DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2611
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2609                                                                                                                                                                       2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3217                                                                                          CONCRETE SIDEWALK OR PATIO AREA;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEE LANDSCAPING AND CIVIL FOR FINAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2609                                                                                                                     2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KEYNOTES                                                                             _
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2609   SITE LIGHT POLE; POLE BASE AND POLE NOT ALLOWED INSIDE OVERHEAD POWER LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOUNDARY AREA; SEE ELECTRICAL AND CIVIL DRAWINGS FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FINAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2609                                                                                                                                                                           2609                                                                                3305                                                                                                                                                             LAYOUT/DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2610   DUAL CAR CHARGING STATION; SEE ELECTRICAL PLANS FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2609                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2611   FUTURE DUAL CAR CHARGING STATION; SEE ELECTRICAL PLANS FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3106   LANDSCAPE AREA, SEE CIVIL AND LANDSCAPING FOR MORE INFORMATION

                                                                       C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FUTURE PHASES LANDSCAPE AREA; SEE CIVIL AND LANDSCAPING FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONCRETE SIDEWALK, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS                                              C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3203   ASPHALT PARKING, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3303
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3305                                                                                                                                     3212   HEAVY DUTY ASPHALT PAVING TRUCK ROUTE; SEE CIVIL FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3304                                                                                                                                                                         3214   ADA PARKING SYMBOL AT STALL, TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3215   NO PARKING STRIPING AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2609                                                                                       3217   PROPERTY LINE, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3220   FUTURE ASPHALT PARKING, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3304
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2609                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3221   FUTURE PHASES CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER, SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BLDG C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3223   PAVER AREA; SEE LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS FOR MORE INFORMATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IRVINE BUSINESS PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3224   OFF SITE PUBLIC ROAD/ RIGHT-OF-WAY PAVING DEMOLITION AND REPLACEMENT FOR UTILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3217
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FUTURE PHASE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3201                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONNECTION; SEE CIVIL PLANS FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3302   TRANSFORMER, SEE ELECTRICAL AND CIVIL FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3303   EXISTING OVERHEAD POWER LINE BOUNDRY; SEE ELECTRICAL AND CIVIL FOR MORE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            440 WEST 13800 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3304                                                                                                                                                                              INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3304   EXISTING OVERHEAD POWER LINE; SEE ELECTRICAL AND CIVIL FOR MORE INFORMATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2609                                                                                                                     3305   EXISTING LARGE OVERHEAD POWER LINE POLE; SEE ELECTIRCAL AND CIVIL FOR MORE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2609                                                                                                              3303                                                                                                                                                                        3306   FIRE HYDRANT; SEE CIVIL FOR MORE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3203
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FUTURE PHASES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ADJACENT PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3212                          3201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FDC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2609                                 2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ESS IONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PR
                                                                               B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L ICENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           No.273765




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MORGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WALKER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ATE      AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OF UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3212
C:\Users\dglazier\Documents\IRVINE OFFICEv_18 OPT 3_dglaz.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2609                                    2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3305




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3305
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3217
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ARCHI TECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FUTURE PHASES                                                                                                                          3305                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T 801.438.9500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            F 801.438.9501

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3115 EAST LION LANE, #200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3201                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HOLLADAY, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2609                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BEECHERWALKER.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2609                                                                    2609                                                     2609
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      429.1701
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DWN BY                             CHKD BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DLG                                 DLG
                                                                               A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IRR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A                                       CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DOCUMENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3217
PRINTED AT 6/28/2019 8:15:34 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3224
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13800 SOUTH STREET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3224
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ARCHITECTURAL SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PLAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAWING NUMBER


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AS101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1" = 50'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AS101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1                                                          2                                                                                                                                               3                                                                                                                                                              4                                                                                                  5                                 6                                             7
                                                        o. 801.438.9500      3115 East Lion Lane, #200       www.beecherwalker.com
                                                        f. 801.438.9501        Holladay, Utah 84121



ENTRY LOCATION – DEVIATION REQUEST                                                #4
TO: Draper City Planning & Zoning                            DATE:                June 26, 2020


RE: Bangerter Crossing II Office Building
    13673 South 100 East
    Draper Utah


We are requesting a deviation from the design standard 09-22-050A requiring:

All buildings shall be located with the main façade facing the principal street to which it has frontage. And main entrances shall be
oriented toward the street rather than the parking in cases where buildings can be located adjacent to the right of way.

Deviation Request Narrative:
The nature of this sight is to be viewed from all sides. The primary public view is from Bangerter Highway. Because this building is
accessed and addressed from a low-traffic cul-de sac rather than a main street with full traffic flow, the concept of a front and a back
of the building is less important than featuring the most prominent public view of the building. Our office building responds to
this challenge by having a 360° design. Each façade has been carefully detailed and thought out to respond to the unique location
and elevation grade of the site. All four elevations are detailed with high quality architectural materials and design. It is in the best
interest of the city and of our project to have two entrances to this building with the public entrance facing north, the more visible
and dominant.

Because this is a professional office building, it is extremely important to create the highest level of visibility to attract high-end
businesses to Draper and to the project. This visibility is clearly from Bangerter Highway. Placing our open and inviting public
entrance and glass atrium facing the highway creates interest and spectacle for the many patrons of the highway each day. It will
add to the grandeur of entering Draper City from I-15.

As future tenants and businesses occupy the building, a north facing visible entrance will create wayfinding for their clients to see
and recognize the location of these businesses. By contrast, placing the main public entry facing the back of Harmons and its
adjacent retail buildings will reduce visibility and not be consistent with the existing developments, which are all facing the
highway. The entrance on the south side of the building is intended for daily use. The architectural elements of the north entry
create an instant understanding that this entry is for public and guest use. These elements include canopy overhangs, four story tall
atrium glass and landscaping with site amenities geared toward a north facing public entrance.

Please note that a deviation was previously granted for the Towne Place Suites Hotel on the adjacent lot for similar reasoning. This
building also has its public entry and primary façade facing north onto Bangerter Crossing. The drawings for this precedent building
is attached.


Code Criteria:
As required in the Code, our development achieves greater than the minimum of three deviation criteria in order to be approved:

1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is required in the
development code and site plan review.

    Site amenities provided in excess of code include eight additional parking stalls along the north of the
    detention basin to offer options for retail parking; pedestrian crosswalk access to the hotel to the west; bike
    parking; and four electric car charging stations.
6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan or ordinance.

    The building considers surrounding developments and is sensitive to nearby buildings. The building architecture demonstrates
    imaginative design, mirrors the surrounding development, and positively contributes to the character of Draper City. Entrances
    are prominent with increases in glass. The façade has articulation with higher stair towers and raised
    roofs.
7. The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases which involve redeveloped buildings,
additions to existing buildings, minor structures added to a site, or new buildings within a previously approved phased
project.

    The materials closely match the existing materials of the buildings within the development.

9. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or modern, which utilizes facade materials
differently than prescribed in subsection 9-22-040F of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.

    The building design matches the architectural style of the existing development which utilizes natural looking
    materials to create a warm modern aesthetic. The building is designed by a licensed architect.



Sincerely,
Beecher Walker & Associates

ISSUED BY:



Jory Walker, President and Principal Architect                June 26, 2020
 (Signature)                                             (Date)
                           CALL BLUESTAKES
                           @ 1-800-662-4111 AT LEAST 48
                           HOURS PRIOR TO THE
                           COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
                           CONSTRUCTION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ENSIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THE STANDARD IN ENGINEERING
                BENCHMARK
    CENTER OF SECTION 6,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SALT LAKE CITY
    T4S, R1E, SLB&M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500
    BRASS CAP MONUMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sandy, UT 84070
    ELEVATION = 4465.44'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Phone: 801.255.0529

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LAYTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Phone: 801.547.1100
                                                                                                                       BANGERTER HIGHWAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Phone: 435.843.3590
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CEDAR CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Phone: 435.865.1453
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RICHFIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Phone: 435.896.2983
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30       0         15        30   60


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ( IN FEET )               WWW.ENSIGNENG.CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HORZ: 1 inch = 30 ft.
                                                                                                                       x        x                     x
                                                                                                                   x                                                x            x                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FOR:
                                                                                                             x                                                                                          x
                                                                                           x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WADSWORTH DEVELOPMENT GROUP
                                                                              x   x                                                                                                                                                                                                                   x
                                                                  x   x   x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 166 E 14000 SOUTH #210
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONTACT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ELIZABETH COLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PHONE:     801-748-4088
                                                              x




                                                                                                                                                                                                        ELECTRIC   COMPACT    COMPACT    COMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ELECTRIC   ELECTRIC              COMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ELECTRIC             COMPACT   COMPACT   COMPACT   COMPACT   COMPACT   COMPACT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 401
                                                          x




                                                                                                                                                                        UP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BANGERTER CROSSING LLC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BANGERTER CROSSING II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMPACT
                                                                                                                                                          COMPACT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GEN.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OFFICE BUILDING
                                                     x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13673 SOUTH 100 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                      PROPOSED BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                     13673 SOUTH 100 EAST
                                                                                      FUTURE FAIRFIELD INN
                                               x




                                                                                                                                           ELECTRIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UP




                                                                                                                                           ELECTRIC
                                         x




                                                                                                                                           ELECTRIC
                                                                                                                                           ELECTRIC
                                   x
                             x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LD BOWERMAN
                       x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INVESTEMENTS III, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DEAN SKALLA
                x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXISTING RETAIL BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   129 E 13800 S
          x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXISTING DETENTION BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NO. DATE        REVISION                  BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1    3-26-2020 CITY COMMENTS 1             BM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2    4-16-2020 WATER LINE CHANGE           BM




                                                                                                                                                                                      100 EAST STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WM
    x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                         EXISTING HOTEL BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                               13690 S 100 E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OVERALL SITE PLAN
x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT NUMBER               PRINT DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5517C                        5/27/20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAWN BY                     CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J. ELDER                     M. BUDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B. MORRIS
                                                                                                                                                                             x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C-200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ELEVATION GENERAL NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A.       REFER TO DOOR AND WINDOW SCHEDULES FOR MORE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               INFORMATION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B.       ALL ROOF DRAINS SHALL CONNECT DIRECTLY TO STORM SEWER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C.       CUSTOM COLORS ARE SELECTED AND SHALL BE FACTORY APPLIED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBMIT COLOR SAMPLES OF ALL SIDING PRODUCTS TO ARCHITECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PRIOR TO INSTALLATION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXTERIOR FINISH KEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                             J                                               H            G         F                                E         D          A300                     C        B               A                                                                                                             A                  B                        C                         A300        D            E                                F                G         H                                          J                                             P1     FIBER CEMENT HORIZONTAL SIDING                                                       RICHARDSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NICHIHA ILLUMINATION SERIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COLOR TO MATCH BENJAMIN MOORE "NIGHT SHADE"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P2     CROSSVILLE CERAMIC TILE                                                              PARTNERSHIP,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SPEAKEASY SERIES                                                                         L.L.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ZOOT SUIT AV282 UPS 8" x 36"                                                          510 South 600 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P2                                                                                            P3     FIBER CEMENT HORIZONTAL SIDING
                                                                                                                                                                                 P2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Salt Lake City, Utah 84102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E3                                            E1                         P2                                                                                                                                                                                            E3                                                                                                                            PARAPET                                NICHIHA ILLUMINATION SERIES                                                             P: 801.355.6868
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                47' - 9"                             COLOR TO MATCH BENJAMIN MOORE "MANOR BLUE"                                              F: 801.355.6880
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  47' - 9"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P4     FIBER CEMENT HORIZONTAL SIDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ROOF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ROOF                                NICHIHA ILLUMINATION SERIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     44' - 3"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    44' - 3"                            COLOR TO MATCH BENJAMIN MOORE "NOVEMBER RAIN"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E1     EIFS - FINE FINISH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COLOR TO MATCH BENJAMIN MOORE "MANOR BLUE"
                                                                                                                                                                                                A                       A                                      A                       A                                                                                                                                                                          B                         B                                           B                      B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E2     EIFS - FINE FINISH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FOURTH LEVEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FOURTH LEVEL                                   COLOR TO MATCH BENJAMIN MOORE "NOVEMBER RAIN"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E2                                                                                             34' - 2"                                                                                                                                                                  E2                                                                                                                        34' - 2"                         E3     EIFS - FINE FINISH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COLOR TO MATCH BENJAMIN MOORE "WHITE DIAMOND"

                                                                                                                                                                                                A                       A                                      A                       A                                                                                                                                               P2                         B                         B                                           B                      B

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C                                                                                               THIRD LEVEL                                                                                                                                                              C                                                                                                                     THIRD LEVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                              P1                                                                   P3                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P3                                               P3                     P1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P3                                                                                                                            24' - 1"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       24' - 1"                                            SHEET NOTES                                                        THE GRAPHIC MATERIAL AND DESIGN ON THIS SHEET ARE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INSTRUMENTS OF SERVICE AND REMAIN AT ALL TIMES THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROPERTY OF THE RICHARDSON DESIGN PARTNERSHIP, L.L.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REPRODUCTION OR REUSE OF THE MATERIAL AND DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONTAINED HEREIN IS PROHIBITED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                A                       A                                      A                       A                                                                                                                                                                          B                         B                                           B                      B                                                                                                      10.01         ILLUMINATED BUILDING SIGNAGE. PROVIDE POWER AND ACCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONSENT OF THE RICHARDSON DESIGN PARTNERSHIP, L.L.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      © 2017 THE RICHARDSON DESIGN PARTNERSHIP, L.L.C. ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIGHTS RESERVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PANEL. PAINT ACCESS PANEL TO MATCH ADJACENT INTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C                                                                                       SECOND LEVEL                                                                                                                                                                     C                                                                                                                  SECOND LEVEL                                  FINISH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14' - 0"                 26.02         EXTERIOR LIGHT FIXTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P1                                                                                                                           P2                          P2
                                                                                                                                            P2                                                                                           E2                                                      P2                                                                                                                                                                                                              E2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S12
                                                                                                                                                                        S8                      A                       A                                      A                       A                                                                                                                                                                          B                         B                                           B                      B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAIN LEVEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MAIN LEVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                             WEST FACADE:                        PRIMARY MATERIALS: 2,694 SF, 77.5%        SECONDARY MATERIALS: 783 SF, 22.5%                                                                                                                                                                                   WEST FACADE:                            PRIMARY MATERIALS: 3,056 SF, 77.1%      SECONDARY MATERIALS: 907 SF, 22.9%
                                                                                                                                                                             TOTAL AREA: 3,477 SF                P1 - 239 SF                               E1 - 104 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL AREA: 3,963 SF                    P1 - 824 SF                             E1 - 230 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P2 - 615 SF                               E2 - 461 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P2 - 840 SF                             E2 - 461 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P3 - 1,272 SF                             E3 - 218 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P3 - 1,392 SF                           E3 - 216 SF
                                                                                                 WEST ELEVATION                                                                                                  P4 - 778 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EAST ELEVATION                                                                                                           P4 - N/A SF
                                                                                             4   SCALE: 3/32" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3            SCALE: 3/32" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                         1                      2                  3                            4                       5                      6                         7                   8                             9           A300       10                         11                      12                            13                                 14                             15         A300              16                  17                             18                 19                  20                    21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONSULTANT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10.01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bangerter Crossing II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PARAPET
                                                                                                                                      E3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             47' - 9"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P1                                                    P2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               44' - 3"

                                                                                                                                                                                      B                      B                       B                    B                        B                          B                   B                                B                       A                         A                               A                                  A                          A                             A                     A                       A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Hotel, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                        P3             E2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E2                P3                                                                                                                                P1                                                                                                  P3                                                                                                                                                    FOURTH LEVEL
                                                                                                                                  P3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      34' - 2"
                                                                                                                                                              P1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E2                                                                                                                                P3
                                                                                                                                                                                      B                      B                       B                    B                        B                          B                   B                                B                       A                         A                               A                                  A                          A                             A        E2           A                       A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THIRD LEVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P3                                                                                                               24' - 1"
                                                                                                            E2
                                                                                                                                                                                      B                      B                       B                    B                        B                          B                   B                                B                       A                         A                               A                                  A                          A                             A                     A                       A                                                                 E2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SECOND LEVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OWNER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14' - 0"



                                                                                                                                                                                      B                      B                       B                                       S13                              S11                 S11                             S11               S14                                                              A                                  A                          A                             A                     A                       A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAIN LEVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0' - 0"
                                                                                                                        SOUTH FACADE:                PRIMARY MATERIALS: 11,292 SF, 81%              SECONDARY MATERIALS: 2,654 SF, 19%                             26.02                              26.02                    26.02                    26.02                     26.02                 26.02                      26.02
                                                                                                                        TOTAL AREA: 13,946 SF        P1 - 4,261 SF                                  E1 - 415 SF
                                                                                                                                                     P2 - 1,949 SF                                  E2 - 2,021 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOWNEPLACE SUITES
                                                                                                                                                     P3 - 5,082 SF                                  E3 - 218 SF
                                                                                                 SOUTH ELEVATION                                     P4 - N/A SF
                                                                                             2   SCALE: 3/32" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13690 S. 100 E. DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                           21                      20                      19                       18                    17                       16         A300          15                            14                    13                           12                    11                         10           A300                       9                           8                           7                       6                              5              4                       3                     2                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10.01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E1                                                  E1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PARAPET
                                                                                                                                                    E3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E3                          47' - 9"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              44' - 3"

                                                                                                                                                                                                             A                   A                    A                            A                    A                        A                            A                       A                         B                               B                                  B                                B                        B                     B                            B            B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT:
                                                                                                                                                         P3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P1                      P2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FOURTH LEVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E1                                  P4                                                          E1                                                                                                                                             E1                                                                P4                                            E1                                                                                                                                                                 #    DATE                    DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          34' - 2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P3
                                                                                                                                                                                      P1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P1
                                                                                                                                                                                                             A                   A                    A                            A                    A                        A                            A                       A                         B                               B                                  B                                B                        B                     B                            B            B

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     THIRD LEVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           24' - 1"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DESIGN DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                 E2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E2
                                                                                                                                                                                                             A                   A                    A                            A                    A                        A                            A                       A                         B                               B                                  B                                B                        B                     B                            B            B

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SECOND LEVEL                                                                                       SCHEMATIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT #:17-128.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CHECKED BY: JK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAWN BY: TT
                      C:\Users\TOlsen\Documents\17-128 TPS Draper Central (V17)_tterry.rvt




                                                                                                                                                                                                             A                   A                    A             P4             A                    A                        A                     S7               S7                S6                    S5                              S4                                 S3                                                  P2                          B                            B            B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAIN LEVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      26.02                         26.02                 26.02                    26.02                                   26.02                            26.02                                          26.02
                                                                                                                                           NORTH FACADE:                 PRIMARY MATERIALS: 10,367 SF, 77.5%            SECONDARY MATERIALS: 3,018 SF, 22.5%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHEET #
                                                                                                                                           TOTAL AREA: 13,385 SF         P1 - 3,980 SF                                  E1 - 2,690 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                         P2 - 1,610 SF                                  E2 - 60 SF
                                                                                                                                                                         P3 - 1,483 SF                                  E3 - 268 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A200
                                                                                                                                                                         P4 - 3,294 SF
                                                                                                 NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                             1   SCALE: 3/32" = 1'-0"
9/8/2017 9:27:51 AM
