                              Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, Utah 84020



                                      STAFF REPORT
                                      August 30, 2022

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: September 8, 2022

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By:        Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                    Planning Division
                    Community Development Department
                    (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Price Real Estate Lot 10 – Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments
        Application Nos.: TEXTMAP-177-2022 (Land Use) and TEXTMAP-117-2022 (Zoning)
        Applicant:        David Driggs of Price Real Estate
        Project Location: Approximately 12251 S. Lone Peak Parkway
        Current Zoning: CBP (Business/Manufacturing Park)
        Acreage:          0.61 acres (approximately 26,571 square feet)
        Request:          Amend the land use designation from Community Commercial to
                          Commercial Special District and rezone the property from CBP
                          (Business/Manufacturing Park) to CSD-LP (Lone Peak Commercial
                          Special District).



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments for
approximately 0.61 acres located on the south side of 13560 South and to the east of 150
East (Exhibits C and D). The property is currently zoned CBP. The applicant is requesting a
Land Use Map Amendment from Community Commercial to Commercial Special District
and a Zoning Map Amendment from CBP to CSD-LP. The subject site is currently vacant.




Price Real Estate Lot 10                      Apps. # TEXTMAP-177-2022 and TEXTMAP-117-2022
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments           1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations                       Exhibit
 Existing Land Use       Community Commercial                                       Exhibit E
 Current Zoning          CBP                                                        Exhibit F
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                 CBP
    West                 CSD-LP
    North                CSD-LP
    South                CBP

The Community Commercial land use designation is characterized as follows:




The zoning designation for the property is CBP (Business/Manufacturing Park), which is
intended “to provide aesthetically attractive planned developments having a mix of office,
research and development, light manufacturing, and limited retail uses.”

Price Real Estate Lot 10                      Apps. # TEXTMAP-177-2022 and TEXTMAP-117-2022
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments           2
The applicant is proposing to change the land use designation to the Commercial Special
District designation. This category is characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the CBP zoning classification. According to Draper City
Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the CBP zone is to “provide
aesthetically attractive planned developments having a mix of office, research and
development, light manufacturing, and limited retail uses. Typical uses in this zone include
offices, clean indoor manufacturing facilities, service retail, restaurants, athletic clubs,
personal service shops, medical offices, office/warehouse buildings, and research facilities.”

Price Real Estate Lot 10                       Apps. # TEXTMAP-177-2022 and TEXTMAP-117-2022
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments            3
The applicant has submitted a site plan application for the property proposed to be
rezoned (Exhibit G). Should the rezone be approved, the building will be built according to
the standards for the CSD-LP zoning designation. The proposed building is a flex
warehouse building with the building along the southern edge of the property and the
parking along the north and east of the property.

Criteria For Approval.
Zoning Map Amendment
A text and map amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in
Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

1.      Map Amendments:
        a.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
             policies of the city's general plan;
        b.   Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
             of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        c.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
             applicable overlay zone;
        d.   The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
             property; and
        e.   The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
             property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
             facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
             water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.

Land Use Map Amendments
The land use map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the
Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists the following criteria
for a General Plan amendment as:

        “Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative
        body, shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-
        060(D).” That section is noted as follows:

        D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
                processed as provided in this subsection:
                1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
                      administrator in a form established by the administrator along with
                      any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application

Price Real Estate Lot 10                       Apps. # TEXTMAP-177-2022 and TEXTMAP-117-2022
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments             4
                        shall include at least the following information:
                        a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant
                                and the applicant’s agent, if any.
                        b.      The name and address of every person or company the
                                applicant represents.
                        c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                                request.
                        d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning
                                map, the application shall include:
                                (1)      An accurate property map showing present and
                                         proposed zoning classifications;
                                (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                         classifications; and
                                (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                         common address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                        e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of
                                this title, the application shall include chapter and section
                                references and a draft of the proposed text.
                2.      After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                        administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                3.      The planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on
                        the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                        chapter. Following the public meeting, the planning commission shall
                        recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the
                        proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the
                        city council for review and decision.
                4.      The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                        application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                        chapter. Following the public hearing, the city council may approve,
                        approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the land use and zoning map amendments submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their review of the land use and zoning map amendments
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.




Price Real Estate Lot 10                        Apps. # TEXTMAP-177-2022 and TEXTMAP-117-2022
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments              5
Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the land use and zoning map amendments submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the land use
and zoning map amendments submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the land use
and zoning map amendments submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

1.       The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
         city’s general plan.
2.       The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
         development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.       The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay
         zone.
4.       The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.       The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are adequate,
         including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
         protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
         and refuse collection.
6.       The land use map amendment complies with standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-
         020(F), DCMC Section 9-5-060(D), and Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-404.

The findings for denial as are follows:

1.       The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
         city's general plan.
2.       The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
         development in the vicinity of the subject property.

Price Real Estate Lot 10                         Apps. # TEXTMAP-177-2022 and TEXTMAP-117-2022
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments               6
3.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable
        overlay zone.
4.      The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
5.      The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property are not adequate,
        including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
        protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
        and refuse collection.
6.      The land use map amendment does not comply with standards found in DCMC
        Section 9-2-020(F), DCMC Section 9-5-060(D), and Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-404.



MODEL MOTIONS
Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the land use map amendment, as requested by David Driggs of Price Real
Estate, application TEXTMAP-177-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the staff report dated August 30, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the land use map amendment, as requested by David Driggs of Price
Real Estate, application TEXTMAP-177-2022, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the staff report dated August 30, 2022 and as modified by the findings
and conditions below:

        1.      List any additional findings and conditions . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the land use map amendment, as requested by David Driggs of Price Real
Estate, application TEXTMAP-177-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the staff report dated August 30, 2022.

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the zoning map amendment, as requested by David Driggs of Price Real
Estate, application TEXTMAP-117-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the staff report dated August 30, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by David Driggs of Price
Real Estate, application TEXTMAP-117-2022, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the staff report dated August 30, 2022 and as modified by the findings
and conditions below:


Price Real Estate Lot 10                          Apps. # TEXTMAP-177-2022 and TEXTMAP-117-2022
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments               7
        1.      List any additional findings and conditions . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the as requested by David Driggs of Price Real Estate, application TEXTMAP-117-
2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated
August 30, 2022.




Price Real Estate Lot 10                          Apps. # TEXTMAP-177-2022 and TEXTMAP-117-2022
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments               8
              DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                   Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield


  Brien Maxfield
                   DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City, ou=PW -                                     Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                   Engineering,
                   email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov, c=US
                   Date: 2022.08.31 09:32:23 -06'00'                            Keith Collier        DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov, O=Draper
                                                                                                     City, OU=Building Official, CN=Keith Collier
                                                                                                     Date: 2022.09.01 05:52:33-06'00'



Draper City Public Works Division                                               Draper City Building Division


                                                                                                       Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                       DN: C=US, E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                     Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                                                                                 Jennifer Jastremsky   O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City, CN=Jennifer

Don Buckley          DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us, O=Draper City Fire
                     Department, OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                     Date: 2022.08.31 08:25:40-06'00'
                                                                                                       Jastremsky
                                                                                                       Date: 2022.08.31 12:02:34-06'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                                     Draper City Planning Division



                                                                                Mike Barker       Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                                                                                                  Date: 2022.08.31 07:55:19 -06'00'


                                                                                Draper City Legal Counsel
                               DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.
No additional comments.

Legal Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
                                    EXHIBIT B
                                LEGAL DESCRIPTION

LOT 10, DRAPER BUISNESS PARK.
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
     EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT’S REQUEST
                                  MAP AND LAND USE AMENDMENTS



ZONING AMENDMENT QUESTIONS

   1. What is the requested zoning designation?
      We are requesting that the proposed lot be re-zoned to be included in the Lone Peak Business
      Park Commercial Specialized District (LPBPCSD).
   2. Please explain the reason for the request and the justification for approval.
      Our reasoning for requesting this zoning change is that we purchased this property last year, and
      since it is located so close to the other properties we own within the LPBPCSD, including the
      property just north of this one, we thought it made sense to include this property in the LPBPCSD
      as well.
   3. How is the requested zoning designation harmonious with the overall character of existing
      development in the vicinity of the subject property? Explain.
      Since we maintain a high standard of quality and design aesthetic at all our properties currently
      located within the LPBPCSD, and since this property is currently located right on the border of the
      LPBPCSD boundaries, we feel adding it to the LPBPCSD will enhance the area by extending the
      aforementioned level of quality and design aesthetic to this property.
   4. Are facilities and services, such as roadways and utilities, sufficient to service the property under
      the proposed zoning? Explain.
      Currently this property is a vacant lot. We are in the permit process for a small size warehouse
      concept that would bring all the appropriate entrances and utilities to the site.
   5. Is the proposed zoning designation consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the City’s
      General Plan? Explain.
      We feel this proposed zoning designation is consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of
      Draper City’s General Plan, mainly since the property is currently situated on the border of the
      LPBPCSD and we would just be adding it to that zoning.

LAND USE AMENDMENT QUESTIONS

   1. What is the requested land use designation?
      We are requesting this lot be designated Lone Peak Business Park Central Business District
      (LPBPCSD)
   2. Please explain the reason for the requested and the justification for approval.
      This property is adjacent to another property that is currently located with the Lone Peak
      Business Park CSD and since Price Real Estate owns the majority of the properties within that
      CSD, we thought it best to have the land use be similar to the other properties within the
      LPBPCSD.
   3. How is the requested land use designation harmonious with the overall character of existing
      development in the vicinity of the subject property? Explain.
      The property directly to the north and the majority of the properties directly to the west are all
      part of the LPBPCSD, so changing the land use of this property would be harmonious to the
      overall character of the existing development in that the property’s land use would be the same
      as the majority of the properties surrounding it.
4. Is the proposed land use designation consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the City’s
   General Plan? Explain.
   We believe so mainly because this property currently borders the LPBPCSD. Since we recently
   purchased it, we feel we would be helping the city achieve its goals and objectives by developing
   the property in accordance with the standards set forth in the LPBPCSD.
