Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: July 28, 2022
Re: Trailside Townhomes – Site Plan and Plat Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan and Plat Amendment for approximately 19.37 acres located on corner of Brookings Dr. and Suncrest Dr., at 2142 East Brookings Dr. The property is currently zoned RR-22, RR-43, and RM . The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan be approved to allow the property to be developed with 152 townhomes and a Plat Amendment to consolidate the six lots that encompass the property into one single lot.    The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The entire site is being developed at one time.
2.   The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in Title 9, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials, as amended by the approved deviations.
3.   The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4.   The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5.   The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
6.   There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.
7.   The second sidewalk or portion of the sidewalk does not provide pedestrian connectivity to any units or amenities.
8.  Ample pedestrian circulation has been provided.
9.   The purpose and intent of the development standards set forth in DCMC Chapter 9-32 are met.
10.   The second sidewalk or portion thereof is unnecessary and/or undesirable.
11.   A predominant building material exists in the project vicinity and the use of the material will uphold the existing character and style of the given neighborhood.
For denial:
1. The site plans do not conform to applicable standards set forth in Title 9, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
2.   The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
3.   The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
4.   The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
5.   There is not good cause for the vacation or amendment.
6.   The second sidewalk or portion of the sidewalk does provide pedestrian connectivity to any units or amenities.
7.  Ample pedestrian circulation is not being provided.
8.   The purpose and intent of the development standards set forth in DCMC Chapter 9-32 are not being met.
9.   The second sidewalk or portion thereof is necessary and/or desirable.
10.   A predominant building material does not exist in the project vicinity and the use of the material will not uphold the existing character and style of the given neighborhood. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report Part 1 7/22/2022 Cover Memo PC Staff Report Part 2 7/22/2022 Cover Memo