                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, Utah 84020



                                                 STAFF REPORT
                                                  April 5, 2022

To:                   Draper City Planning Commission
                      Business Date: April 14, 2022

From:                 Development Review Committee

Prepared By:          Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                      Planning Division
                      Community Development Department
                      (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     3D Print Fly — Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.:  USE-072-2022
        Applicant:        John Watson
        Project Location: Approximately 459 E. Willow Moor Cove
        Current Zoning:   R3 (Single Family Residential, 13,000 square foot lot minimum)
        Acreage:          Approximately 0.33 acres (approximately 14,374.8 square feet)
        Request:          Approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit in the
                          R3 zone for a cottage business that utilizes a 3D printer to
                          design and create items to sell online.



SUMMARY and BACKGROUND
This application is a request for 0.33 acres located on the north side of Willow Moor Cove
(Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is requesting approval of a
cottage business for online sales of 3D printed items.

The home was originally built in 1994 and is Lot 122 of Pheasant Brook Estates Phase 1
residential subdivision.




3D Print Fly                                                         App. # USE-072-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request         1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the R3 zoning classification, supporting approximately
three dwelling unit per acre (Exhibit D). According to DCMC Section 9-8-020 the purpose of
the R3 zone is to “permit medium density residential development without special
mitigation requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential
development with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to
generally preserve the semirural character called for in the density element of the general
plan.” The entire property is surrounded by the R3 zone.

Proposed Use. The applicant is proposing a home occupation for a 3D printing business.
The applicant would print various 3D items and then sell them online. There are no
outside employees and since all orders will be done online, there will be no customers


3D Print Fly                                                         App. # USE-072-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
coming to the house. A home occupation conditional use permit is needed as this is
considered a cottage business where items are made in the home.

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

A.      Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
        resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
        the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

        For this business, the homeowner is the business owners and there are no outside
        employees.

B.      Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
        from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to Title 6, Chapter 11 of this
        code.

        The applicant will comply as needed.

C.      Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
        employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
        limited to one person.

        There will be no regular outside employees.

D.      Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
        other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
        city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

        The applicant will comply with this requirement.

E.      Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
        hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is
        allowed.

        The applicant will utilize items typically associated with a household and no large
        equipment. The 3D prints are designed for use in a residential home and there will
        be some storage of materials for the printer. The area utilized for inventory will be
        less than 250 square feet.

F.      Modification of Structures or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
        exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a


3D Print Fly                                                             App. # USE-072-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   3
        dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
        benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered
        to provide parking required for a home occupation.

        There will be no alterations with this home business and no visible evidence that
        there is a business in the home.

G.      Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
        is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
        magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

        This business is for 3D printing of materials. The sound from the printers is minimal
        and cannot be heard outside of the residence.

H.      Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
        the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall
        not disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the
        residence is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit
        shall be used for the home occupation.

        This business will always be a secondary use to the home as a single family dwelling.
        The business will occupy less than 250 square feet of the home, or 0.07% of the
        homes 3,777 square feet.

I.      Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with Chapter 26, “Signs”, of this
        title.

        There is no signage proposed with this application. Any signage proposed in the
        future would have to comply with DCMC 9-26.

J.      Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
        parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
        which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
        adequate provision for drop off traffic.

        There will be no customers and no outside employees.

K.      Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
        vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
        would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
        shall be allowed on vehicles.




3D Print Fly                                                           App. # USE-072-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   4
        The applicant parks their personal vehicle at the home, and they will only use their
        personal vehicle for business use.

L.      Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
        any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

        All of the applicant’s business activity will be conducted in the home. There will be
        no business activity in any yard.

M.      Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
        preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

        The applicant will not have any customers coming to the home.

N.      Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
        excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

        The utility demand for the proposed business will be in alignment with utility use for
        a normal residential use.

O.      Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
        within the primary structure on the property.

        All business activity will reside inside the primary structure on the property.

P.      Single-Family and Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
        or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-
        family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and Section 9-34-
        060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an
        approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management
        company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees,
        customers or business vehicles.

        This is a single family dwelling, and will comply with DCMC Section 9-34-060.

Q.      Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
        state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
        not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
        Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential
        certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section
        R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are
        regulated and inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related
        home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.


3D Print Fly                                                            App. # USE-072-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
        This is a cottage business and does not involve any food production or child care.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

E.      Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of
        a conditional use permit:
        1.     A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
               where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
               zone.
        2.     Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially
               mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
               These conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction,
               character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and
               other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such
               conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the
               conditional use permit.
        3.     If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional
               use cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable
               conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional
               use may be denied.
        4.     The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining
               whether a conditional use permit application should be approved, approved
               with conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be
               imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
               a.      The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
                       and requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b.      The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c.      Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or
                       existing development in the vicinity;
               d.      The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                       surrounding area;
               e.      The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                       surrounding area;
               f.      The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                       transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
                       screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian
                       and vehicular circulation;




3D Print Fly                                                         App. # USE-072-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
                 g.     The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                        emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
                        proposed facility or use; and
                 h.     The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
                        welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property
                        in the area.
         5.      The Planning Commission may request additional information as may be
                 reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this
                 subsection E can be met.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the home occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the home occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions has completed their review of the home occupation conditional use permit
submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire has completed their review of the home
occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Legal Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed their review of the home
occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:


3D Print Fly                                                          App. # USE-072-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
1.      All requirements of the Draper City Fire Department, Building Division, and Business
        License Division shall be satisfied throughout the operation of the home occupation
        on the property.
2.      The home occupation is required to maintain approval and adequate licensure from
        any and all necessary agencies.

The findings for approval as are follows:

1.      Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
        anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

1.      Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
        alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.


MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the home occupation conditional
use permit, as requested by John Watson, application USE-072-2022, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated April 5, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the home occupation
conditional use permit, as requested by John Watson, application USE-072-2022, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated April 5, 2022, and
as modified by the findings and conditions below:

1.      List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the home occupation conditional use
permit, as requested by John Watson, application USE-072-2022, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated April 5, 2022.




3D Print Fly                                                           App. # USE-072-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
               DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                   Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                  Digitally signed by Keith Collier

 Brien Maxfield
                   DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City, ou=PW -                       DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov,
                   Engineering,
                   email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov, c=US
                   Date: 2022.04.05 16:02:02 -06'00'
                                                                   Keith Collier       O=Draper City, OU=Building Official,
                                                                                       CN=Keith Collier
                                                                                       Date: 2022.04.07 09:11:16-06'00'


Draper City Public Works Division                                  Draper City Building Division


                     Digitally signed by Don Buckley                                      Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                     DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,                                DN: C=US, E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,

Don Buckley          O=Draper City Fire Department, OU=Fire
                     Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                     Date: 2022.04.05 14:47:23-06'00'
                                                                    Jennifer Jastremsky   O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City, CN=Jennifer
                                                                                          Jastremsky
                                                                                          Date: 2022.04.05 15:49:42-06'00'



Draper City Fire Department                                        Draper City Planning Division



                                                                   Mike Barker         Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                                                                                       Date: 2022.04.05 14:33:08 -06'00'

                                                                   Draper City Legal Counsel
                                    EXHIBIT A
                               DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Legal Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
         EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN AND FLOOR PLAN
                                           156.88'




    N
                         19
                          0.2
                              5'




                                                              143.97'
LEGEND

      Structure

      Driveway

      Landscaping

      Scale 1”=20’


Project: 3D Print Fly Conditional Use

Date of Drawing:
22/2/2022

Applicant:
John Watson

Site Address:
459 E Willow Moor Cove, Draper, UT 84020

                                                     48.60'
NO PROPOSED CHANGES
TO CURRENT PROPERTY
     WATSON HOME BUILDING SKETCH
459 E WILLOW MOOR CV, DRAPER, UT 84020

 PARCEL 28312060210000 - SCALE 1/8”=1’
        EXHIBIT F
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
                                                              Watson House Parcel Map




February 22, 2022                                                                                                                                                1:1,219
                                                                                                                                       0           0.01          0.01                         0.03 mi

                                                                                                                                       0           0.01           0.03                          0.05 km




                                                                                                                              County of Salt Lake, County of Utah, Bureau of Land Management, Utah
                                                                                                                              AGRC, Esri, HERE, Garmin, GeoTechnologies, Inc., NGA, USGS, Esri,
                                                                                                                              HERE, GeoTechnologies, Inc., Salt Lake County, Maxar, Microsoft



                                                                                                                                    This map was created by the office of the Salt Lake County Assessor, in
 The information depicted here is to be taken as an approximate fit in regards to the spatial position of the layers presented. This map is not intended to represent an actual field Survey of, nor establish
             Watson Home - 459 E Willow Moor Cv




05/27/2021
Statement of Compliance with Standards

3D Print Fly Conditional Use Application

22/2/2022

Referring specifically to the sections of DCMC 9-5-080E



    1. 3D Print Fly, LLC will be doing customized one off light manufacturing via hobbyist 3D printers
       designed for production use. Our inventory will not exceed 250 square feet, and there is no
       change to the exterior appearance or use of the home or use of the surrounding area.
    2. There will be no detrimental effects. The filaments we are able to work with do not emit
       noxious fumes or odors.
    3. No detrimental effects are anticipated.
    4.
       a. We are in harmony with the general plan of the City.
       b. Our printers are hobbyist class printers designed for use in a residential home. I have been
           using the specific printers in question for several years as a hobbyist.
       c. There will be no effects on the surrounding areas, and there will be no customer traffic.
           a. The online business will bring additional sales tax revenue to Draper via online sales.
           b. There will be no aesthetic impact from our use, it will be limited to one or two rooms in
               our house.
           c. Power may be the only consideration. As the printers in full use are equivalent to about
               a 100 watt lightbulb, it is unlikely to be a detrimental impact before the business needs
               to move to a larger facility.
           d. There will be no offensive odors or other issues.
           e. There will be no effects on the area beyond a few additional shipments of raw materials
               to our home.
    5. We will be happy to provide any other information necessary to meet your needs.
Overview of Proposed Use

3D Print Fly Conditional Use Application

22/2/2022



The home is our primary residence, with 4 adults (2 parents and 2 children) living in it. The applicant
works remotely due to covid, and can manage the printers while accomplishing his full-time job.

3D printing takes on two forms in our proposal. First is Fused Deposition Modeling where polymers in a
form similar to what you might see used in a string trimmer, are fed through a “hot end” and deposited
in a manner that builds a new item. Items can be ornamental or functional, and there are different
polymers for different applications. We primarily use PETG, but also use a Carbon Fiber Polycarbonate,
and intend to use other engineering materials as needs arise. Our main printers are Prusa i3 MK3s
printers. A normal print can take from 3-48 hours depending on size and complexity.

The second form of 3D printing is resin printing. In this an Ultra Violet curing resin is in a vat, and either
a projection or laser are used to cure a microscopic layer one at a time to build up a very detailed object.
These objects are much higher resolution than FDM prints, but are also generally smaller. Our current
printer is a Frozen Sonic Mini 4k, and we are anticipating getting a Frozen Sonic Mega 8k. These prints
are cleaned and given a final UV cure prior to shipping. A normal print can take from a few hours to
several days depending on size and complexity.

Electrically we could easily have up to 10 printers running all the time without significantly affecting our
power usage. The printers we intend to use are designed to run nearly 24/7, are quiet, and are actually
the very type of printer that the parts for our own printers were printed on.

There will be no required parking, as all business will be done online. The printers can run easily without
human supervision, and they are quite quiet. Quiet enough I am able to be on conference calls with the
printer running behind me with no concern for it interfering in my conducting business.

There will be no employees beyond our family while it is within our home.

There is no need for site improvements. We have sufficient infrastructure to run the business as-is.

Neighbors will not notice any effects as the printers are quiet, and will be fully contained in our
basement.

We will have occasional shipments of material, and we will be shipping out items. All the items we
would be printing would be well within the normal scope of what UPS ships. We anticipate mostly
smaller items that can be sent in padded envelopes.
Images of our Current 3D Printed Offerings

3D Print Fly Conditional Use Application

22/2/2022




                  Gameplay Miniature




   License Plate Adapters for Japanese Import Vehicles




                                                         Various Custom Signage



           Customized House Number Plates
A screenshot of our website
Analysis of deviations Requested

3D Print Fly Conditional Use Application

22/2/2022

Provide a detailed explanation of which development standards found in §9-34-040 a deviation is being
requested for. Please be detailed in what the business is proposing to do instead of the standard.

Referencing §9-34-040:

9-34-040:

      A.     The business is owned and operated by the homeowner who resides in the home, and is
             the primary provider of the labor, work, and service.
      B.     A business license has been applied for, and this paperwork is in service of it.
      C.     Only immediate family will be working for the company.
      D.     Our home complies with all codes.
      E.     We will not have more than 250 square feet of our home dedicated to inventory.
      F.     There will be no modification of structure or yards.
      G.     There will be no nuisance.
      H.     The home business is secondary to the homeowners use of the home as a residence.
      I.     There will be no signage
      J.     There will be no additional traffic or signage beyond occasional shippers.
      K.     There will be no vehicles beyond the owner’s personal vehicles.
      L.     The yard will not be used for the business.
      M.     There will be no customers at our home.
      N.     The utility demand will not be excessive, and should be limited to the amount used by 10
             standard 100 watt light bulbs.
      O.     The business will be conducted within the structure, and within the basement of the
             structure.
      P.     This is a single family dwelling that is not part of a Homeowners Association.
      Q.     N/A
