MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2022 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:         Vice Chairman Craig Hawker, Commissioners Gary Ogden, DeLaina
                       Tonks, Lisa Fowler, Susan Nixon and Mary Squire

ABSENT:                Chairman Andrew Adams, Commissioners Tab Bingham and Kendra
                       Shirey

STAFF PRESENT:         Fred Aegerter, Mike Barker, Jennifer Jastremsky, Todd Draper, Brien
                       Maxfield, Spencer DuShane, and Amie Salazar.

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker welcomed everyone to the meeting, he began the meeting at 6:30pm

1. Action Item: Approve Amended Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for August 25,
   2022 (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Lisa Fowler motioned to approve the Amended Meeting Minutes as
written.

Second: Commissioner Mary Squire

Vote: A roll call vote was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Fowler, Tonks, Squire, Nixon and Ogden voted, “Aye”.

2. Public Hearing: Patterson Property Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Action)
On the request of Carl and Allen Patterson, for a Zoning Map Amendment from RA1 to RA2 on
3.3 acres of property located at 1310 S. Boulter St. Application TEXTMAP-119-2022. Staff report
by Jonathan Concidine, 801-576-6522, j.concidine@draperutah.gov. Staff presentation by Jennifer
Jastremsky.

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager and Zoning Administrator, presented the application.
The applicants, Carl and Allen Patterson, hope to subdivide the property to create more lots. Vice
Chairman Hawker asked a question about a future access road. Ms. Jastremsky, responded
indicating that there was plenty of room on the site for a private lane that would provide access to
the lots.

Applicant, Allen Patterson, stated that he and his brother have owned this property for many years,
and they would now like to subdivide.

Vice Chairman Hawker opened the public hearing.
No public comments were made.
Vice Chairman Hawker closed the public hearing.
Motion: Commissioner Susan Nixon made a motion to send a positive recommendation to
the City Council for the Patterson Property Zoning Map Amendment as requested by Carol
and Allen Patterson. Application TEXTMAP-119-2022. Based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the staff report dated August 25, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Gary Ogden

Vote: A roll call vote was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Fowler, Tonks, Squire, Nixon and Ogden voted, “Aye”.

3. Public Hearing: Avery Townhomes Development Agreement (Legislative Action)
On the request of Troy Dana, representing Draper Office Associates, LLC, for a Development
Agreement on 2.44 acres of property located at approximately 638 East 12225 South Application:
DA-181-2022. Staff Contact: Jonathan Concidine, 801-576-5622, j.concidine@draperutah.gov.
Staff report by Jennifer Jastremsky.

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager and Zoning Administrator, presented the project. This
project was initially brought before the Planning Commission in July of 2022. Mr. Troy Dana, the
applicant took the proposal to the City Council, where they requested he apply for a development
agreement and change his plans to show only twenty-one units with driveways. He has come back
before the Planning Commission with this development agreement application to set the plan for
twenty-one units with twenty-foot driveways for each Townhome. This project if recommended
for approval by the Planning Commission will be taken back to the City Council for approval.

Vice Chairman Hawker asked for clarification by staff regarding the intent of the development
agreement. Jennifer Jastremsky stated the intent is to lock in the concept plan and total number of
dwelling units.

Commissioner Nixon asked if the agreement needed to specify the number of units in section 2 of
the agreement. Mike Barker, City Attorney stated that Maximum Dwelling Units is a defined term
that includes the number of units in the agreement and that section 2 does not need to be altered.

Applicant, Mr. Troy Dana, stated that the main change in the plans is to the number of dwelling
units changing from seventeen to twenty-one. The concept plan provides each townhome with the
required twenty-foot driveway. He stated that he felt it was a better plan all around.

Vice Chairman Hawker opened the public hearing.
No public comment was made.
Vice Chairman Hawker closed the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to send a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the Avery Townhomes Development Agreement requested by Troy Dana
representing Draper Office Associates LLC. Application DA-181-2022. Based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated September 13, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Fowler
Vote: A roll call vote was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Squire, Tonks, Nixon and Fowler voted, “Aye”.

4. Public Hearing: City Initiated Temporary Parking Ordinance (Legislative Action)
On the request of Draper City for a Text Amendment to Title 9 of Draper City Municipal Code in
order to amend regulations pertaining to location, design and construction of temporary parking
for recreational vehicles and trailers. This application is known as the City Initiated Temporary
Parking Ordinance. Application: TEXTMAP-176-2022. Staff contact: Todd Draper, (801) 576-
6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Mr. Todd Draper, Planner III, presented the proposed amendment. He indicated that the proposal
changes the language in the City’s Parking Ordinance, and that the purpose of the change is to
clarify and identify regulations for temporary parking areas and where recreational vehicles and
trailers can be parked. Additionally, he stated that the proposal clarifies what type of surface is
required for each parking type. He also pointed out that the current code requires that recreational
vehicle parking must be on a hard surface such as asphalt or concrete, and that the proposed
ordinance would allow for other types of surfacing.

Commissioner Fowler asked if there was a specific reason for proposing the change to the
ordinance.

Mr. Draper noted there have been questions that have come up about whether gravel was an
acceptable surface, which was one reason for proposing the change. The proposed change would
allow the use of rock, which would also include gravel. Mr. Draper further stated that drainage of
water from the parking areas and paving will still be required to comply with the city standards.

Vice Chairman Hawker opened the public hearing.
No comments were made.
Vice Chairman Hawker closed the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler made a motion to send a positive recommendation to City
Council, for the City Initiated Temporary Parking Ordinance as requested by Draper City.
Application TEXTMAP-176-2022. Based on the findings and subject to conditions listed in
the staff report dated September 1, 2022.

Second: Commissioner DeLaina Tonks

Vote: A roll call vote was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Nixon, Squire, Tonks and Ogden voted, “Aye”.

5. Discussion Item: Moderate Income Housing Report and General Plan Amendment
   (Administrative Action)
Presentation regarding the annual Moderate Income Housing Report and amendments to the
Moderate-Income Housing Plan within the General Plan. Staff contact: Todd A. Draper,
todd.draper@draperutah.gov, (801) 576-6335.
Mr. Draper stated that contrary to the agenda heading, there is no action to be taken on this agenda
item. This item was a placeholder to report back to the Planning Commission on what took place
at the City Council regarding adoption of the General Plan Amendment updates to the Moderate
Income Housing Plan. He reported that the City Council did adopt updated plans in their last
meeting on Tuesday. Mr. Todd Draper reported that the City Council did make a change in the
included strategies from what the Planning Commission recommended and removed the strategy
and implementation plans regarding Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU’s) from the plan, and added
the strategy and implementation plans regarding reducing or eliminating impact fees for moderate
income housing in its place before they adopted it. Now that the Moderate Income Housing Plan
has been approved by the City Council, Mr. Draper said that he will submit it to the Department
of Workforce Services at the State as the required annual Moderate Income Housing Report. He
indicated that the next steps will be to implement the strategies in that plan in the coming years.

Commissioner Fowler asked why the City Council removed ADU’s from the list. Mr. Draper
stated that he did not know.

6. Training: Origins of American City Planning Part 1
Fred Aegerter, Community Development Director, presented a historical background about
planning practice over the years and the concepts that come into play when planning decisions in
a city are made.

Mr. Aegerter stated that in earlier days, people would go to garden cemeteries to have picnics and
get together. As a result garden parks were created as a city attraction without the cemetery being
a part of it. Once such park, Central Park in New York is 842 acres in size. He indicated that input
from politics and political leaders has always been important in the development of parks, as it is
important to make sure that there is funding.

Mr. Aegerter continued, that after the parks movement took place, the housing movement arose in
about 1880. In New York City the concept of apartments came to the idea table. Sanitation and
privacy in earlier times was mostly not existent. One early housing requirement was to have a
window on every wall. By 1867 apartment construction intensified with twenty-five to one-
hundred units per lot, and buildings as tall as forty-six stories high. People were moving from
single-family homes to apartments. The window regulations were changed around this time to
require the window to be on the outside of the building rather than on every wall in the house. By
1901 the law in New York required buildings to have proper ventilation, bathrooms, and lighting.

Mr. Aegerter stated that planning changed drastically after the World's Columbian Exposition that
was held in Chicago in 1893. The World’s Fair in Chicago created an example of what cities could
be and how they could look. As a result civic improvements changed throughout the nation. He
indicated that the changes in planning were not about the buildings, but were about the setting.

7. Adjournment: Commissioner Squire made a motion to adjourn. The meeting was
   adjourned at 7:17 p.m.
