Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: February 1, 2022
Re: Reynolds Home – Zoning Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 1.43 acres located on the north side of Richins Rd. (12700 South), at approximately 1595 East 12700 South. The property is currently zoned R A2 . The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved for the purpose of rezoning the properties from the RA2 zone to the R4 zone.
This area of the City is an older part of town with many parcels and homes that pre-date the City incorporation in 1978. There are four properties subject to this request, three of which contain homes built in 1913, 1971, and 1986. In March of 2021 the property owners adjusted the parcel boundaries in order to make the property lines match historic fence boundaries. None of the parcels complied with the minimum lot size in the RA2 zone as previously configured, and only one complies as currently configured. The purpose of the application is to place the existing properties into a zone with a smaller minimum lot size so that the existing properties comply with minimum lot size requirements. No new lots or parcels are proposed. One of the four parcels is vacant and the  property owner wishes to build a single-family home on the parcel.
The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their January 13, 2022 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation on a 5-0 vote.
The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
a.   Advance the preservation and revitalization of Draper’s mature neighborhoods to ensure a healthy, safe, and attractive place to call home.
2.   The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
a.   The Residential Low/Medium Density designation promotes a density range of up to 2 dwelling units per acre.
2.   The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1525 1/28/2022 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 1/25/2022 Cover Memo Public Comments 1/25/2022 Cover Memo