Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: April 28, 2022
Re: Willow Creek Industrial Properties Lot 2 Amended Site Plan Extension Request Comments: On May 13, 2021, the Planning Commission granted site plan approval for the Willow Creek Industrial Properties Lot 2 Amended Site Plan located at approximately 432 West 12300 South.  The application number is SPR-1026-2020.
Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-5-090(J) states:
Expiration: Failure to obtain a land disturbance permit within one year of approval of any site plan shall void the prior site plan approval. Prior to the expiration of the one-year period, an applicant may submit a written request to the community development department for a site plan extension of up to six (6) months. Approval of this extension may only be granted by the zoning administrator or planning commission, whichever is the approval authority outlined in this section, provided the applicant can meet the requirements for extension under section 9-5-030 and demonstrate substantial action toward obtaining a land disturbance permit. If a site plan expires, and an applicant wishes to continue with development of the site a new application shall be required. If there have been no changes to applicable codes which would necessitate updates to the previously approved plans, the applicant will be charged a new application fee of fifty percent (50%) of the current fee outlined in the consolidated fee schedule and the application shall be approved by the zoning administrator or planning commission, whichever is the approval authority outlined in this section, in a public meeting as an action item. If changes to the site plan are made by the applicant or are required due to changes in applicable codes, the site plan shall be processed as a new application and is subject to a new application fee at one hundred percent (100%) of the current fee established in the consolidated fee schedule.
DCMC Section 9-5-030(J) allows for an extension with good cause shown, as follows:
Extensions Of Time: Unless otherwise prohibited, upon written request and for good cause shown, any decision making body or official having authority to grant approval of an application may, without any notice or hearing, grant extensions of any time limit imposed by this title on such application, its approval, or the applicant, provided a written request for such extension has been received by the community development department prior to the date of expiration, or provided the city staff or planning commission has initiated an extension prior to the date of expiration. The total period of time granted by any such extension or extensions shall not exceed half the length of the original time period.
To date, the property owner has not acquired a land disturbance permit or begun improvements to the property. As such, they are seeking a six-month extension of the amended site plan approval. Attached to this memo is the applicant’s written request for site plan approval extension, the original approval letter, and Planning Commission staff report. Staff received the request for extension on April 14, 2022, prior to the expiration of the site plan.
If approved, the site plan approval will be valid through November 13, 2022.
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the site plan extension, as requested by Bruce Kenner, representing Willow Creek Industrial Properties #1 LLC and Willow Creek Industrial Properties #3 LLC,  for the Willow Creek Industrial Properties Lot 2 Amended Site Plan, application SPR-1026-2020, based on the findings listed in the memo dated April 28, 2021.
Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the site plan extension, as requested by Bruce Kenner, representing Willow Creek Industrial Properties #1 LLC and Willow Creek Industrial Properties #3 LLC,  for the Willow Creek Industrial Properties Lot 2 Amended Site Plan, application SPR-979-2020, based on the findings listed in the memo dated April 28, 2021. The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1. That the applicant has shown good cause to obtain an extension and that substantial action has occurred towards acquiring a land disturbance permit.
For Denial:
1. That the applicant has not shown good cause to obtain an extension and that substantial action has not occurred towards acquiring a land disturbance permit.
ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Extension Request 4/14/2022 Cover Memo Approval Letter 4/22/2022 Cover Memo P.C. Staff Report 4/14/2022 Cover Memo