MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, DECEMBER
14, 2021, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:           Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green (by
                   phone), Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha
                   Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Kellie
                    Challburg, Chief of Staff; Scott Cooley, Public Works Director;
                    Hazel Dunsmore, Human Resource Director; John Eining, Police
                    Chief; Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager; Rhett Ogden,
                    Recreation Director; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda
                    Peterson, Communications Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Jake
                    Sorensen, IT; Jen Jastremsky, Planning Manager; Todd Draper,
                    Planner; Maryann Pickering, Planner; Travis DeJong, Business
                    License Official, and Jared Zacharias, Assistant Finance Director
_____________________________________________________________
Study Session

1.0   Discussion: D.R. Horton – City Boundary Line Adjustment –David Dobbins

1.1   City Manager David Dobbins introduced Scott Bishop from D.R. Horton and
      Stan Lockhart.

1.2   Scott Bishop explained that the property had been purchased in March of that
      year, and they had been working on a development agreement. The
      understanding of his company had been that eventually, the property would
      be annexed into Lehi from Draper City. He said that about ten years ago, the
      process for annexation had been started, but something had gone wrong with
      the paperwork and the annexation had never been completed. He discussed
      that he and his team had investigated to determine why that had not
      happened, and they had discovered that there were some issues with the
      annexation to Lehi. He commented that they had originally assumed the
      annexation process would be easy since Draper City could not serve this
      property.




Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – December 14, 2021
Mr. Bishop said that there were only a limited number of units available, which
was a good thing since their goal was to leave a lot of open space. He added
that they had also included a trail system as a part of their plans, and they
imagined that the area could be a great recreational space. He explained that
they intended to have a large trailhead park at the bottom of Maple Hollow,
and the trail system would connect to the community to the north of their
property. He stated that the trails were the main amenities.

Councilmember Roberts asked which pieces of the property were not going to
be developed, and Mr. Bishop responded that there were about 900 acres, and
based on the topography of the land, about half of that space was not
economically able to be developed. Councilmember Roberts then asked if it
was not to be developed, why did the team not tie up that land now. Mr.
Bishop replied that they were still in the process of determining which parts
would be developed, and which parts would be incorporated into the trail
system. He commended that right now, there were a lot of moving parts which
made it difficult to determine which parts of land would not be developed.

Mr. Dobbins explained that Draper City would not provide amenities to the
area, since they did not have sufficient water capacity, and they would have to
mandate that the developer build out infrastructure for water. He said that it
would be cost-prohibitive to provide water amenities to the proposed
development site. Councilmember T. Lowery clarified that it would not be
impossible, but too expensive to provide water to the area. Mr. Dobbins also
pointed out that the fire and police stations were too far away to provide a
reasonable response time, and this posed a threat to the public safety of the
residents of the proposed development site.

Councilmember T. Lowery commented that she did not like the idea that
Draper would have no control over the area, even though she acknowledged
the benefits to the area being incorporated into Lehi. She said that it did not
seem right that Draper would have no say over the administration of the area
since the planned trail system would feed into Draper’s already overcrowded
trails. She asked if Utah County would hold a conservation easement, which
led to a short discussion without a definitive answer.

Councilmember Roberts also voiced fears that if they lost control of the land,
then areas that they did not want to be developed might get developed. Mr.
Bishop asked how much control Draper City wanted, and said that when his

                                                                  Page 2 of 16
      team had originally come to the Council and asked for just the lower portion
      of the land, they had heard the same concerns about loss of control. Mr.
      Bishop remembered that the Draper City Council at the time had only been
      willing to give the land over as long as a portion remained set aside for
      conservation, and he reported that they had done so. He said that he wanted
      to find a solution that would be the best for both cities. Councilmember
      Roberts thought that Mr. Bishop’s development team had done a great job,
      and asked if he would be willing to work with Draper on the development of
      the conservation land, and Mr. Bishop said he was willing to do that.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if Mr. Bishop had a general idea of where the
      conservation areas would go, and Mr. Bishop gave a general outline of what
      areas were expected to be set aside for conservation. He added that he
      wanted to give the developed part of the land to Lehi, and keep the open space
      in Draper. Councilmember T. Lowery felt that the development would take
      open space out of Draper since all the land was in Draper currently.

      Mr. Bishop indicated on a map where his development would go, as well as
      the surrounding properties. He said that he was in discussion with some of
      the surrounding property owners about potentially joining with his
      development, and once those conversations were finished he could come
      back to Lehi and Draper with an updated, more specific map of where all the
      property boundaries would fall.

      Mr. Bishop noted there was a joint trail system agreement between Draper
      and Lehi, and that they were working on connecting some of the existing trails.

      Mr. Dobbins pointed out if they did the conservation easement with Lehi, it
      would be an easier process since they would not have to get the County
      involved. Mr. Bishop seconded this and said he would rather have it go
      through the cities than the County.

2.0   Discussion: Highland Drive Environmental Impact Study – Scott Cooley

2.1   Public Works Director Scott Cooley discussed the regional transportation plan
      and said that they wanted to get federal funding for their public transit
      projects. He said that the City did qualify for some federal grants, but most
      projects required a 7% match. He further explained that they would not
      qualify for funding unless they had completed their environmental impact

                                                                        Page 3 of 16
study. He stated that on Highland Drive, a driveway had been reserved for a
road that would connect Draper with Sandy. He explained that a corridor had
been preserved for this connection. He explained that the environmental
study covered the area from the Draper border to I-15, and if approved, the
project would connect I-15 to 215 at 9800 South.

Mr. Cooley said that the study would be for planning purposes, and would not
have a predetermined outcome or suggestion. He elaborated that the study
would identify the obstacles and problems with the construction, and would
help determine if this would be a feasible project, and it would also address
the problems that would arise if they chose not to do the project. He said this
was a phase II project, which would mean that it would be constructed
sometime between 2030 and 2040, and the project would cost about $314
million, with the city’s portion being about $10 million. He said that the study
would determine if the road should be regional or local and if it should even
exist at all.

Councilmember F. Lowry worried that the public would not support this
project as they would feel it to be a waste of money. Mr. Dobbins explained
that the money for the study had already been earmarked for that purpose,
and he added that he thought Sandy was ready to do the study. He reiterated
that the purpose of the study was to obtain federal funding, and he said that
Sandy had already signed a financial agreement with the federal government,
but now they needed to sign a cooperation agreement with Draper. He
explained that in the past, there had been a verbal agreement between the
two cities to do this project, but it now needed to be formalized.
Councilmember T. Lowery asked when the verbal agreement had taken place,
and Mr. Dobbins thought it was about five years ago.

Councilmember F. Lowry thought they should do the study so that if the study
found that the road would not be feasible, they could stop setting aside the
right-of-way for the Sandy-Draper connection.

Mr. Cooley clarified that the study was not funded, although it had been
approved in the budget. He recommended that they bring a budget
amendment to the next meeting if they did want to go ahead with the study.

Councilmember Roberts commented that if the study found it should be a
local road, Draper had no way of funding that construction. Mr. Cooley agreed

                                                                   Page 4 of 16
      with that point but thought it was still important that they go forward with the
      study. Councilmember Roberts thought they needed to be very careful about
      how they informed the residents about the study. Mr. Cooley stated that the
      study would cost $4.6 Million, and they would need to fund $168,000 of that
      total amount. He urged the Council to inform him as soon as possible if they
      did not intend to take this project any further since it would only get harder to
      withdraw from the plans as time went on.

3.0   Council/Manager Reports

3.1   Councilmember Roberts updated the Council about Traverse Ridge Special
      Service District (TRSSD). He stated that their auditor had found them to be out
      of compliance with several state mandates in terms of the budget, and the
      Council had been asked to take over their administrative functions, namely,
      accounting. Mr. Dobbins said that it would not be a lot of additional work, but
      it would be extra work, and they could increase the administrative costs
      associated. He also clarified that there would be no increased cost to the non-
      TRSSD taxpayer.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that the Renaissance Fair had been proposed to
      be held in June at the Andy Ballard Arena, as they needed a better venue. He
      discussed what a Renaissance Fair was like, and explained that it drew a fairly
      large audience each year. He said that the projections for attendance ranged
      from 3,000 to 25,000 people. He also discussed different options for funding
      for the setup of the event and asked if he could pursue that with the Special
      Events Arena Committee.

      Councilmember F. Lowry also reported on the Tree Committee and said there
      was an available government grant that would fund one employee to help with
      the water-saving program. He did not know full details but thought it would
      be wise for the City to reach out and get more information.

Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance




                                                                          Page 5 of 16
2.1   Pastor Nate Taylor from Corner Canyon Church offered the prayer. The Pledge
      of Allegiance was led by Todd Draper.

3.0   Presentation: Police Department Holiday Card Winners
3.1   Police Chief John Eining explained the selection process, in which fifth-graders
      submitted Holiday Card designs to the police department. First, the police
      chief selected the top six cards, and then let the police staff narrow down to
      the top three cards. Then, they presented the top three cards to the City
      Council, after which a winner would be announced. Police Chief John Eining
      invited the three finalists to come and join him, and they took photographs
      with the City Council. The winner that year was Jasmin Chowdhary of Channing
      Hall Elementary.

4.0   Recognition: The League for American Bicyclists designates Draper City as a
      Bicycle Friendly Community – Bronze Level

4.1   Mayor Walker announced that earlier that year, Draper had applied to join the
      League of American Bicyclists, and they had now been recognized as a bronze-
      level bicycle-friendly city. He discussed the many advantages of biking over
      driving and said he was very proud of the work that the City had done to garner
      its status as a bicycle-friendly city.

5.0   Presentation: 2021 Popular Annual Financial Report (PAFR)

5.1   Assistant Finance Director Jared Zacharias explained that the Popular Annual
      Financial Report (PAFR) was a condensed, more easily read version of the
      Annual Financial Report, which would be discussed later in that meeting. He
      said that the content of the PAFR also focused on things that were more
      relevant to the citizens. He indicated the two major changes that had taken
      place over the year, which were great sales tax numbers and property tax
      numbers. He showed some of the graphs that had been included in the PAFR
      and discussed some of the other topics that were presented in the PAFR. He
      noted that there was another page in the document which overviewed how
      the City functioned and highlighted the main points of the General Fund for
      that year. He also had included fee-supported funds, such as water. He
      announced that the PAFR was now live on the Draper website and available to
      be read by the public.




                                                                         Page 6 of 16
5.2   Councilmember Roberts commented that he was impressed at Draper’s ability
      to create a diversified tax rate, and their ability to keep property taxes low.

6.0   Public Comments

6.1   Todd Shoemaker said that his family had moved to Draper in the 1950s, and
      he has taught Utah and US history in the Jordan school system for many years.
      He stated he had bought the Day Barn for $900 at auction, so it could be
      preserved as a gathering area. He announced that he had resigned in
      opposition to the City’s decision to not preserve any of the old prison buildings,
      and only erect a plaque to acknowledge where the 1940 buildings had once
      stood. Mr. Shoemaker discussed that the Mayor had not been in favor of the
      preservation of the buildings when the item had come up for discussion at a
      prior meeting. He expressed the opinion that the buildings had architectural
      value, and deserved to be preserved. He asked the Mayor why he did not value
      the preservation of the buildings.

7.0   Consent Items
          a.   Approval of November 9, 2021, and November 16, 2021, City
               Council Meeting Minutes

          b.   Approval of Resolution #21-57
               A resolution approving a lease agreement between Draper City and
               DISH Wireless, LLC for an equipment shelter and infrastructure to
               support new antennas installed on the existing water tank cell
               tower located at SunCrest Water Tank #3, Draper, Utah. Staff: Bret
               Millburn
          c.   Approval of Resolution #21-67
               A resolution of the Draper City Council establishing the regular
               meeting schedule for the City Council and Planning Commission
               for the year 2022. Staff: Laura Oscarson

7.1   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                   the   Consent     Items.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

7.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.




                                                                          Page 7 of 16
8.0    Action Item: Ordinance #1512 and #1513, this item, the Concord Lane Zoning
       Map, Land Use Amendment, and Development Agreement, has been
       continued to the next Draper City Council Meeting.

9.0    Action Item: Resolution #21-69, a resolution approving a snow removal
       services agreement with the Traverse Ridge Special Service District (TRSSD).

9.1    Assistant Finance Director Jared Zacharias showed the Council the agreement,
       which was an updated version of one from 2018. He said this version was
       more concise, so that there was less room for confusion, and that the intention
       of the agreement was clarity. He said that the purpose of the agreement was
       to provide Draper residents with a snow removal service, as well as define the
       payment for those services. He also indicated a map that showed where the
       boundaries for snow removal service lay.

9.3    Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve                  Resolution    #21-69.
       Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

9.4    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

10.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1517 and #1518, ordinances amending the official
       Land Use map of Draper City for approximately 3.8 acres of property from
       Community Commercial to Residential High Density, and amending the official
       Zoning Map of Draper City from A2 (Agricultural, 2-acre lot minimum) to RM2
       (Multi-family residential, up to 12 dwelling units per acre) located at
       approximately 286 West River Chapel Road within Draper City, otherwise
       known as Meadows of Draper Land Use and Zoning Map Amendment
       (Legislative Action)

10.1   Planning Manager Jennifer Jastremsky stated the property was on West River
       Chapel Road, and the applicant wanted to change the land use designation
       from Community Commercial to the Residential High-Density zone, which
       would allow up to twelve units per acre. She clarified that the applicant did
       not want to make any changes to the Code, and all the construction would be
       in keeping with City guidelines. She shared a concept of the site, which showed
       the open space that would be included in the plan, as well as some images of
       the property. She reported that the Planning Commission had recommended
       approval, with a 5-0 vote.

                                                                         Page 8 of 16
10.2   Councilmember Roberts asked about what the traffic impact would be if the
       multi-family units were added. Ms. Jastremsky replied that there would be
       additional traffic since in the current zone there could only be one house on
       the property. Councilmember Roberts commented that the road was one of
       the worst in the City in terms of traffic flow. He asked when a traffic study
       would be done, and Ms. Jastremsky said that while a traffic study would not
       be required for this site, the City could request that one be done.

       Mr. Cooley said that American Preparatory Academy (APA) was the biggest
       problem as far as traffic went in that area. He said that he had visited that area
       many times, and the problem was that many people needed to get into APA
       and they only had narrow time slots in which they could go, so they waited on
       the roadway right outside. He reported that he was working with the school
       to find a solution to the traffic backups. He said that widening the road would
       help, but not solve the issue completely, and voiced concerns that traffic in
       that area tended to bottleneck around APA.

10.3   Brad Reynolds introduced himself as the applicant in question and voiced
       appreciation for the Council’s consideration. He stated that his company had
       been building for 35 years, and commented that it had been a big challenge to
       get affordable products on the market in the last two years. He felt that due
       to the housing shortage, there was a real need for townhomes in the area, and
       he thought they would be a good transition to the residential neighborhoods
       in Draper. He discussed the increased demand for townhomes and reported
       that he had met with the community HOA, who liked the idea but also had
       concerns about traffic. He felt that there would be more traffic with a
       commercial site than with townhomes and that in fact, townhomes had less
       traffic due to their general demographic. He recalled that the community had
       also asked that they build an eight-foot wall between their community and the
       community to their south, which he had agreed to do. He then discussed the
       amenities of the homes and said that they would be an attractive addition to
       the community, and exceeded the required setbacks.

10.4   Councilmember T. Lowery asked why he had chosen to do townhomes, rather
       than small, single-family homes, and Brad Reynolds discussed that he thought
       townhomes provided a smoother transition between the commercial area and
       the residential areas.



                                                                           Page 9 of 16
10.5   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.

10.6   Scott Pettit commented that his property backed up to the proposed site, and
       he was on the HOA board that Brad Reynolds had spoken with. He said that
       the HOA felt this would be a good option, and better than many alternatives.
       He commented that he would miss the open space behind his home, but
       voiced support for Brad Reynolds’ building plans. He requested that
       consideration be made to put a traffic light in on the road, to assist with traffic
       concerns, as well as increased police patrol in the area during APA pickup and
       drop off.

10.7   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

10.8   Brad Reynolds said that they would do everything possible to mitigate the
       traffic, and thought that affordable housing was a huge need for the area. He
       hoped that he would get a positive recommendation, and pointed out as well
       that the HOA around his property was in favor of the construction. Brad
       Reynolds commented that it was not economically feasible to put single-family
       homes directly next to the commercial area.

10.9   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to deny Ordinances #1517 and #1518.
       Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

10.10 Councilmember Vawdrey noted that while the applicant had claimed that this
      change would allow up to ten units per acre, it would allow for twelve units per
      acre.

10.11 Councilmember Green also thought they should leave the zoning as it was
      currently.

10.12 A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

11.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1516, an ordinance of Draper City amending the
       text of the land use and development code of the Draper City Municipal Code
       relating to medical uses in the destination commercial (DC) zoning district.
       (Legislative Action)




                                                                           Page 10 of 16
11.1   Planner Maryann Pickering gave an overview of the request and indicated on
       the map where the area in question was located. She explained that this would
       make medical uses allowed in the destination commercial zone. She reported
       that the Planning Commission had recommended approval, with a 5-0 vote.

11.2   Tyson Reynolds introduced himself as the applicant and thanked the Council
       for their consideration. He explained that the business was called Elite Carpal,
       and they did small medical procedures on wrists to alleviate pain from Carpal
       Tunnel Syndrome.

11.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward, so Mayor
       Walker closed the public hearing.

11.4   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve                    Ordinance    #1516.
       Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

11.5   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

12.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1514, an Ordinance amending the official Zoning
       Map of Draper City for approximately 0.86 acres of property from RA1
       (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot minimum lot size) to R3
       (Residential, 13,000 square foot minimum lot size), located at approximately
       1521 East Pioneer Road within Draper City, otherwise known as the 1521 East
       Pioneer Road Zoning Map Amendment. (Legislative Action)

12.1   Planner Todd Draper explained the request for the rezone, and shared an
       aerial map that showed the location along Pioneer Road. He said it was .6
       acres, which meant that they needed to be in the R3 zone, not R2, to do their
       requested changes. He reported that the request had been unanimously
       recommended for approval by the Planning Commission.

12.2   Councilmember F. Lowry clarified that this would allow for two units, but not
       three. Mr. Draper confirmed that was correct, and showed images of the
       property, and indicated where the parcels of land would be split. He also
       stated that the surrounding properties were zoned RA1.

12.3   Applicant Andrea Wright introduced herself and said that she and her husband
       wanted to build a home on the property so they could move their family to

                                                                        Page 11 of 16
       Draper. She said she would split the property, and build her home on the back
       half acre.

12.4   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor
       Walker closed the public hearing.

12.5   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve Ordinance 1514.
       Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

12.6   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

13.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-63, a Resolution accepting the City of Draper Audit
       and Annual Comprehensive Financial Report (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ending
       June 30, 2021.

13.1   Rob Wood explained that they issued an independent auditors report, per
       State guidelines. He said that based on their Annual Financial Report, it
       seemed that all of Draper’s funds were healthy and operating as they should.
       He said that they had positive fund balances, and were not running any
       deficits. He said that for the General Fund, there could be an unassigned fund
       balance of up to 35%, and Draper was currently at 30%, making them in
       compliance with their balances. He noted that the only thing they were not in
       compliance with was something called Justice Court, since only certain
       transactions could be recorded in that financial report, and some additional
       transactions had been reported in that report. He commented that was simply
       a coding issue, and the transactions could be fixed and recorded through the
       proper channels. He also noted that this was more of an AOC issue than a City
       issue since it indicated insufficient training for City clerks. Mr. Wood said that
       there had been no material weaknesses found in the City, and summarized
       that the City was doing very well financially, and was able to fund a lot of
       projects. He also noted they had received a lot of CARES funds.

       Mr. Wood then summarized six findings from the Traverse Ridge Special
       Service District (TRSSD) Administrative Control Board and said that they were
       their own separate entity, and thus needed to submit their own financial
       statements, which they had not yet done. He said that the findings had to do
       with financial control. He had found that they had an overage on their budget,
       and their financial statements had never been prepared or submitted. In

                                                                          Page 12 of 16
       addition, they had not submitted a fraud risk assessment, which they had not
       done. He had found that the district was currently operating without insurance
       and that three of the five board members had not completed the required
       training. He said that those changes needed to be made to stay in compliance.

13.2   Mr. Dobbins thought that if the City took over administration of TRSSD, they
       could work through those issues very quickly, except for the problems with the
       overages in the budget. Mr. Wood briefly discussed how TRSSD was allowed
       to create its budget as a special entity. Councilmember F. Lowry asked if the
       tax that they currently collected was sufficient to cover their costs, and Mr.
       Wood said it was not, and that was something on which they were currently
       working. Councilmember F. Lowry clarified that they had sufficient resources
       to operate at a deficit for a couple of years, but eventually, they would need to
       find a solution. Mr. Wood summarized that he felt the City could help TRSSD
       with their record-keeping.

13.3   Councilmember Roberts moved to approve                      Resolution     #21-63.
       Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

13.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

14.0   Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Special Use Permit for Summit
       Sips Wine School LLC

14.1   Travis DeJong, Business License Official, explained that the business was
       based out of a home, and the owner took bookings to visit people’s homes and
       teach them about wine. He said that since the business was mobile, it did not
       need a site map or insurance, per State guidelines. Councilmember F. Lowry
       clarified that this was wine education and training, and Travis DeJong further
       explained that people learned about wine from different countries and things
       like taste and aroma. Councilmember F. Lowry asked if any certificates were
       awarded, and Travis DeJong was not aware of any.

14.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.

14.3   Applicant Laura Wheatley said that this was her business, and she was a
       certified wine specialist. She also had certificates for wine in specific countries.
       She explained that she went to homes for private events or fundraisers, and

                                                                            Page 13 of 16
       she presented wines from different countries and would explain the history
       and flavor profile of the wine. She said that she was allowed to serve up to five
       ounces of wine and that the focus of the classes was education, not alcohol
       consumption.       She said that only samples were served during the
       presentation, and then people could choose to drink more after she had left
       the event.

14.4   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

14.5   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve the Local Consent for a Special
       use Permit for Summit Sips Wine School, LLC. Councilmember Roberts
       seconded the motion.

14.6   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

15.0   Action Item: Ordinance #1519, an ordinance approving the Big Willow Creek
       4th Amended Development Agreement.

15.1   Mr. Dobbins indicated on the map where the access points were, and said that
       Ivory Homes had requested that they be issued ten building permits, with the
       stipulation that they would not fill the lots or get any certificates of occupancy
       until all of the access points had been completed. He stated that this would
       allow them to continue building homes, even though they would not sell the
       homes until allowed to do so. They did want to complete construction on one
       home so that it could be included in the Parade of Homes. Mayor Walker
       thought this would be a good compromise, and allow the developers to
       continue to move forward on their projects, and they would also complete the
       access roads.

15.2   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve                     Ordinance     #1519.
       Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

15.3   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

16.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-66, a resolution by the Draper City Council
       approving the City Council Assignments List for 2022.



                                                                          Page 14 of 16
16.1   Mayor Walker explained that they would determine the assignments,
       committees, and boards that the Council Members would serve on for the
       2022 year in addition to their duties on the City Council.

       Councilmember F. Lowry wished to remain on the Special Events Arena
       Committee. Councilmember Vawdrey decided to remain on the Historic
       Preservation Commission, as well as the Parks, Trails, and Recreation
       Committee.

       The Council determined that rather than having one Council Member serve on
       the Planning Commission, they would meet once a year to discuss their overall
       goal and vision for the community so that there would be less interference
       from the Council in the Planning Commission’s decision.

       Councilmember T. Lowery would serve on the Tree Committee. Mayor Walker
       wanted to continue serving on the Diversity and Inclusion Committee, as well
       as the Youth Advisory Committee. Councilmember Green would continue to
       serve on the Audit Committee. Councilmember Roberts would take over the
       board position on the Association of Municipal Councils. Councilmember F.
       Lowry would serve on the Chamber of Commerce. Councilmember T. Lowery
       would serve on the Jordan River Commission and the Draper Foundation.
       Councilmember Roberts and Mayor Walker wanted to remain on the
       Legislative Policy Committee, and Councilmember Green joined as the third
       member.

16.2   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve Resolution #21-66, approving
       the City Council Assignment List for 2022.
       Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

16.3   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

17.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-65, a resolution of the Draper City Council electing
       a member to serve as the Mayor Pro Tempore.

17.1   Councilmember T. Lowery nominated Councilmember F. Lowry to serve as
       Mayor Pro-Tempore if Mayor Walker was unable to attend a City Council
       meeting.



                                                                        Page 15 of 16
17.2   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve Resolution #21-65, appointing
       Councilmember F. Lowry as Mayor Pro Tempore. Councilmember Roberts
       Seconded the motion.

17.3   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

18.0   Adjournment

18.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting.

18.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

18.3   The meeting adjourned at 8:53 p.m.




                                                                      Page 16 of 16
