Draft Meeting Minutes August 25, 2022
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, AUGUST 25, 2022 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:        Chairman Andrew Adams, Vice Chairman Craig Hawker, Commissioners
                      Mary Squire, Gary Ogden, DeLaina Tonks, Lisa Fowler, and Kendra
                      Shirey.

ABSENT:               Alternate Commissioners Tab Bingham and Susan Nixon.

STAFF PRESENT:        Fred Aegerter, Mike Barker, Jennifer Jastremsky, Todd Draper, Brien
                      Maxfield, Spencer DuShane, Maryann Pickering and Amie Salazar.

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chairman Andrew Adams welcomed everyone to the meeting, he began the meeting at 6:30pm

1. Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for July 14, 2022
   (Administrative Action)

   Motion: Commissioner DeLaina Tonks motioned to approve the July 14, 2022 Meeting
   Minutes as written.

   Second: Commissioner Mary Squire

   Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
      Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Fowler, Tonks and Ogden voted, “Aye”.

2. Action Item: Cinnamon Ridge Lots 2 & 3 Plat Amendment Approval Extension
   (Administrative Action)

   On the request of Broch Lassig, property owner, for an extension of a plat amendment approval
   for the Cinnamon Ridge Lots 2 & 3 Plat Amendment request located at approximately 1106
   and 1124 E. LeAmbra Lane, application SUBD-110-2021. Staff Contact is Maryann Pickering,
   801-576-6391, maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

   Maryann Pickering, Planner III, presented this request. The summary of this project is:
     ● Approved on September 23, 2021 by the Planning Commission
     ● Needed to reprint Mylar and get signatures three times
     ● Anticipates it will be completed soon and is requesting a 6 month extension
     ● Lot line adjustment within Cinnamon Ridge
     ● Relocates approximately 319 square feet between the lots.

   Chairman Andrew Adams asked if the applicant is present, for further questions. The
   applicant is not present.
    Motion: Commissioner Craig Hawker moved to approve the request from Broch Lassig
    representing Plat. Application SUBD-110-2021. Based on the findings and subject to the
    conditions listed in the staff report dated August 25, 2022.

    Second: Commissioner Lisa Fowler

    Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
    Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire, Tonks and Ogden voted, “Aye.

3. Public Hearing: MyBase Products LLC Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
   (Administrative Action)

On the request of Stephen and Jennifer Baer, representing MyBase Products LLC, for a Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit for a cottage business, located at 388 E. Golden Pheasant Dr.
The property is 0.31 acres in size and located in the R3 zone. Application USE-143-2022. Staff
contact is Jennifer Jastremsky.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager and Zoning Administrator, presented this project. The
location is in single family, residential medium, and the R3 zone. This is a cottage business in the
home. It is making and selling natural deodorants to others online, no employees who do not live
in the home will be working in this business.

Applicant: Stephen Baer, it is a small at home business, we get orders online and then we take
them to the post office or UPS, and mail them. It's like making jam, we make about 50 at a time,
and it is an unscented effective natural deodorant.

Chairman Andrew Adams opened the public hearing reminding anyone who would like to speak
to keep their comments and concerns to three minutes.
No comments were made.
Chairman Andrew Adams closes the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to approve the MyBase Products Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit. Application USE-143-2022. Based on the findings and sub
conditions listed in the staff report dated August 12, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Gary Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire, Tonks and Ogden voted, “Aye.

Chairman Andrew Adams congratulated Stephen and Jennifer Baer on the approval and wished
them good luck with their new business.

4. Public Hearing: JT Dowland Lot 2 Plat Amendment (Administrative Action)




Draper City Planning Commission Meeting Minutes August 25, 2022
On the request of Kevin Smith, property owner, for a plat amendment to relocate the retention
basin from the west side of the lot to the north property line and northeast corner of the lot located
at approximately 1097 E. 13400 South. Application SUBD-103-2022. Staff Contact is Maryann
Pickering, 801-576-6391, maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Maryann Pickering, presented the project. This property is located in the Residential Low Medium
land use category and the RA2 zone. The applicant is requesting to move a retention basin located
on the property to build a detached garage. The home on the property is currently under
construction. Currently the retention basin is located at the northwest corner of lot two. The new
location of the basin will be in the cross hatched area of the property at the rear. There will be no
changes made to the lot size or the boundaries.

Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineering Manager, stated when storm water cannot be drained ideally
it is stored on site. When the subdivision came in, the developer decided to store the storm water
onsite.

There was a question from the Commission asking if any changes would be made to the setback,
with the changes to moving the basin and the future construction of the garage.

Maryann Pickering stated all buildings will need to meet required setbacks and comply with
current codes.

Commissioner Craig Hawker asked if this is a case where when the water comes you have to keep
it on this property, does that cause any issues.

Brien Maxfield stated this request will meet the current City standards, to encourage runoff to
remain where it falls.

Applicant: Kevin Smith, stated the design of the house, and plan is to keep the runoff on the
property, and the moving of the basin is to accommodate the future detached garage. He stated it
doesn't affect anyone or anything by moving it.

Chairman Andrew Adams opened the public hearing reminding anyone who would like to
comment to keep their comments and concerns to three minutes.

Kelly Page: He lives on the north side of the applicant. He has a RV garage that sits lower than his
house. It has flooded multiple times. He noted that there is a three foot retention wall that acts like
a dam, but if it were made taller or added any type of stress to it the runoff would come right down
to his property. Kelly Page said there is nothing between his property and the retaining wall to stop
it. He stated I am strongly against this change, and asking if they can redesign to take into
consideration the flooding.

Chairman Andrew Adams closed the public hearing.

Kevin Smith returned to answer more questions. Kevin Smith stated the house designed is a low
profile home, meaning it will remain as level to the ground as possible, not having stairs. He also



Draper City Planning Commission Meeting Minutes August 25, 2022
stated he was not aware of the flooding problem, but said we will work with what they have to try
and avoid it.

Chairman Andrew Adams asked if the retention pond is equal to what it currently is to capture the
flow, and is it for the developed lot or the undeveloped lot, has any grading been done to prevent
this flooding from happening.

Brien Maxfield stated until the home is finished and the applicant moves into the home, then the
civil engineer would have to certify the site meets the drainage requirements. Brien Maxfield stated
historic drainage will always roll downhill however, the City does requires a basin on the property
to potentially cut down on the flooding hazards.

Commissioner Hawker asked if the City engineers would handle the civil paperwork or if the
applicant's engineers would.

Brien Maxfield replied the applicants engineers would handle the information and provide stamped
calculations.

Commissioner Lisa Fowler asked if the level of the land is higher than the lot to the north.

Brien Maxfield stated that it is slightly higher, the Commission discussed if more water would be
caught by a storm drain, it was concluded that no storm drain is in the plans at this time.

Chairman Andrew Adams requested that the applicant work with his neighbors on the flooding
issue, if they can find some kind of common ground it will work out for both of them in the long
run.

Motion: Commissioner Tonks made a motion to approve the request of Kevin Smith,
property owner, for a plat amendment to relocate the retention basin. Application SUBD-
103-2022. Based on the findings and subject to conditions listed in the staff report dated
August 16, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire, Tonks and Ogden voted, “Aye.

5. Public Hearing: Residences at Draper Hills Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Action)

On the request of Greg Nield, representing Eternal Spring LLC, for a Zoning Map Amendment for
6.06 acres of property located at 14178 S. Bangerter Parkway in the CG Zone Application
TEXTMAP-123-2022. The Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky

Jennifer Jastremsky presented this project. The location is in high density land use designation and
the CG (General Commercial) zoning designation. The applicant is requesting the change to be
RM2 residential multi-family. The neighboring properties are zoned R3. The zoning destination



Draper City Planning Commission Meeting Minutes August 25, 2022
does not match what is physically out in this same area, as neighboring properties are developed
as townhomes. The property is two to three acres in size, and the proposal is to allow about twenty
seven units. The applicant has provided elevation showing what they could build if they are
approved, they would love recommendations from the commissioners on the looks. Modern vs
Traditional. They are asking for the zone change and once this request is passed, if it is passed, the
applicant will then bring in a site plan application.

Commissioner Fowler asked where the exit will be on the site. Jennifer shows on the map the
current access is through a private road, and as the application progresses the access will be
determined in the future.

Commissioner Hawker asked if that many new drivers will cause more stress to the private road,
and if so why can't there be access to the South Fork Road.

Brien Maxfield stated the private lane meets the city fire code. The city would not prohibit the use
of the private lane. This is something they would talk with the applicant about what is the best
function with the site plan.

Applicant: Darin Mano stated it's good to be back in Draper. He addresses the connection to South
Fork road by stating, if it is preferred that they use that road instead of the private lane they can
adapt and change the plan. The plan is not to match the zoning but to make the area look like what
is already there.

The Commissioners suggest that they like the look of the traditional views better than the modern.

Commissioner Hawker asked about parking. He stated there are always problems in that area with
parking, and there will be parking on the road. Commissioner Hawker asked about the parking,
what is the projected plan.

The applicant stated he plans to accommodate the proper parking as requested in the code.

Jennifer Jastremsky also notes that this information will be drawn up in the site plan.

Chairman Andrew Adams opened the public hearing reminding anyone who makes a public
comment to keep them to three minutes.
No public comments were made.
Chairman Andrew Adams closed the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Hawker made a motion to send a positive recommendation to the
City Council to approve the Zoning Map Amendment; as requested by Greg Nield
representing Eternal Spring LLC. Application TEXTMAP-123-2022. Based on the findings
and subject to conditions listed in the staff report dated August 12, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Squire




Draper City Planning Commission Meeting Minutes August 25, 2022
Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire, Tonks and Ogden voted, “Aye.

6. Discussion Item: General Plan Amendment

A discussion regarding the Moderate Income Housing elements of the current General Plan and
changes required by the passage of the House Bill 462. Staff Contact: Todd A. Draper,
801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Todd Draper, City Planner III, made a PowerPoint presentation that included the following
information regarding the General Plan and the Moderate Income Housing requirements for the
plan:
House Bill 462 (HB462)
    ● Required the City to update Moderate Income Housing Plan elements within the General
       Plan for the purpose of providing, encouraging, and maintaining the supply of moderate
       income housing.
    ● The City must pick from an updated list of strategies provided by the State
    ● Selected strategies must include a specific plan for their implementation
    ● Deadline to adopt changes is October1, 2022.

Discussion and feedback
   ● Planning Staff is looking for feedback on the strategies that should be chosen and how they
       could be implemented.
   ● Staff will use feedback received between now and September 2nd to develop the proposed
       changes that will be brought through the Public Review Process.

Definition
Moderate income housing is defined as a housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by
households with a gross income equal to or less than 80% of the median gross income for
households of the same size in the county in which house is located. The definition is set by the
State of Utah. According to US department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) 80% of
the area median income for a family of four in 2021 in Salt lake county is $73,750.00 ( Utah county
is $66,950) this breaks down roughly to gross monthly housing costs of $1,844 (1,674) or less,
inclusive of utilities.

Potential strategies
Required:
   ● (V) develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with section 10-9-403.1; and
   ● (G) amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate income
       residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment
       corridors; or



Draper City Planning Commission Meeting Minutes August 25, 2022
    ● (H) amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for residential
      development where a resident is less likely to rely on the resident's own vehicle, such as
      residential development near major transit investment corridors or senior living facilities;
      or
    ● (Q) create a housing and transit reinvestment zone pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part
      6, Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act.

Todd Draper noted that because the City has FrontRunner and TRAX stations, it is required to do
strategy V and pick one more from either G, H, or Q. The City would also need to choose two
additional strategies. The list goes A-X.

Potential Strategies
Elective options:
   ● (A) Rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of moderate income housing;
   ● (B) Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or expansion of infrastructure that
       facilitate the construction of moderate income housing;
   ● (C) Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable housing stock
       into moderate income housing;
   ● (D) identify and utilize general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to waive
       construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the municipality for the
       construction to rehabilitation of moderate income housing;
   ● (E) Create or allow for and reduce regulations related to internal or detached accessory
       dwelling units in residential zones;
   ● (F) Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in
       commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial
       centers, or employment centers;
   ● (I) amend land use regulations to allow for single room occupancy developments;
   ● (J) implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new developments;
   ● (K) preserve existing and new moderate income housing and subsidized units by utilizing
       a landlord incentive program providing for deed restriction units through a grant program,
       or, notwithstanding section 10-9a-535, establishing a housing loss mitigation find;
   ● (L) reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing;
   ● (M) demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land trust program for
       moderate income housing;
   ● (N) Implement a mortgage assistance program for employees of the municipality, an
       employer that provides contracted services to the municipality, or any other public
       employer that operates within the municipality.
   ● (O) Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax
       incentives to promote the construction of moderate income housing, and entity that applies
       for programs offered by the Utah Housing Corporation within that agency’s funding



Draper City Planning Commission Meeting Minutes August 25, 2022
         capacity an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by the
         Department of Workforce Services, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs
         administered by an association of governments established by an Interlocal agreement
         under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services
         provided by a public housing authority to preserve and create moderate income housing,
         or any other entity that applies for programs or services that promote the construction of
         preservation of moderate income housing;
    ●    (P) Demonstrate utilization of a moderate income housing set aside from community
         reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and renewal
         agency to create or subsidize moderate income housing;
    ●     (R) Eliminate impact fees for any accessory dwelling unit that is not an internal accessory
         dwelling unit as defined in section 10-9a-535;
    ●    (S) Create a program to transfer development rights for moderate income housing;
    ●    (T) ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local political subdivision for the
         purpose of combining resources to acquire property for moderate income housing;
    ●    (U) develop a moderate income housing project for residents who are disabled or 55 years
         old or older;
    ●    (W) create or allow for, and reduce regulations, related to, multifamily residential
         dwellings compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential dwellings
         and located in walkable communities within residential or mixed-use zones;
    ●    (X) demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the housing
         needs of residents of the municipality who earn less than 80% of the area median income,
         including the dedication of a local funding source to moderate income housing or the
         adoption of a land use ordinance that requires 10% or more of new residential development
         in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income housing.

Discussion:

 Chairman Adams opened the presentation to a discussion by asking which of these strategies are
real world solutions. Todd Draper stated that these are all real world solutions.

Commissioner Hawker asked about private/public partnerships and what would be best for Draper
City. Will the people of Draper City be able to afford a high density condo that potentially could
come into the area? There have been many problems with local people in the community who don't
want more high density condos. How does the City guarantee a development remains affordable?

Jennifer Jastremsky stated that the key to making these strategies work are components requiring
the buildings to be affordable, whether there are deed restrictions or income restrictions that are
part of HUD Restrictions. So what the City decides and agrees to follow, whether it be reducing




Draper City Planning Commission Meeting Minutes August 25, 2022
the fees, or expanding the density, there will need to be the added component of requiring that the
units remain affordable.

Commissioner Hawker stated Park City does something for their work-force housing units, it is a
program that limits the appreciation and allows the units to be affordable to an owner occupant for
those who work in Park City.

Chairman Andrew Adams likes the higher density as referred to in letter G, the higher density that
is more affordable would allow the young families, and recent graduates to live closer family.

Todd Draper stated Draper City has to pick at least four choices. If the City wants to obtain priority
in state transportation funding, the City will need to choose at least six. The Planning Commission
does like the letter G strategy, referencing a higher density.

Todd Draper asked about the Letter H strategy, Chairman Andrew Adams indicated that the City
could place more high density (condos) near the TRAX and FrontRunner stations and this would
allow less parking. Chairman Adams does not see enough spots for development near the current
TRAX stations.

Commissioner Mary Squire stated, the problem, in as much as it would be nice to reduce the
parking spaces, is that you have to take into consideration that Draper City is not walkable, the
stores and other accommodations do not accommodate someone without a car. You still would
need a car just to get from grocery stores to home and wherever else. Chairperson Andrew Adams,
does agree with her statement, and believed it folly to try to implement strategy H.

Commissioner Hawker asked if there is a specific time frame to implement any of the items chosen
and how do you know when you are finished?

Todd Draper stated there will be a five year timeframe for implementation of what is chosen. He
indicated that it did not require the City to every strategy next year. The City's progress will be
tracked and reported to the State each year. Once the implementation is done, it just is reported as
completed each subsequent year. Todd Draper indicated that there is always the potential for the
State to continue to change the State Code, and add more requirements that would potentially keep
projects like this ongoing in the future.

Jennifer Jastremsky stated that when this came back before the Planning Commission there would
be an implementation measures included. An example would be to create an ordinance that allows
for a reduction in fees and then the City could adopt this ordinance.




Draper City Planning Commission Meeting Minutes August 25, 2022
Commissioner Hawker noted that the City had a lot of large lots and did not allow for Casitas or
tiny homes. Jennifer Jastremsky quickly corrected him in pointed out that they were allowed but
were called Detached Accessory Dwelling Units. Todd Draper pointed out that the strategy
regarding reductions in ADU regulations was already a part of the current General Plan. Todd
further explained the changes and reductions included in la

Commissioner Hawker asked about having both an internal ADU and a detached ADU at the same
time on larger lots. Jennifer Jastremsky pointed out that there was nothing in City or State code
that required these units to be affordable.

Chairman Andrew Adams, on letter F zoning, how would this work? Would the city just decide to
make a new zone or rezone to a higher density?

Todd Draper addressed this, letter F was highlighted because, the City has very few mixed use
zones. He stated that a new mixed use zone type that a developer could request could be created.

Fred Aegerter, Community Development Director, said the zoning ordinance needs to be refined
and looked at as it has not been looked at for decades. He stated it is important to look at the zones
comprehensively and apply these strategies, like incentives, to provide more moderate income
housing in these areas.

Chairman Andrew Adams stated that if a new zone is created, he would encourage it to be located
in a less desirable area for the higher density that will naturally keep the future price down to
organically keep it affordable. Chairman Andrew Adams asked Fred Aegerter if the market for
condos, yurts, and sweat lodges, etc. He asked if developers were singling out a town or city
because of the city incentives provided.

Fred Aegerter noted that what he say in California was the increase in ADU’s, from 1 up to 3 per
lot, and ignoring all setbacks greater than four feet. Fred stated that he did not see a high a demand
from developers for incentives. He informed the Commissioners that Minneapolis does not have
single family zones anymore.

Chairperson Adams asked if Draper would want to see something like that, and indicated that he
would not like to see that. He indicated that he supported strong incentives to help entice
developers to build in Draper to help keep things affordable to the families and residents.

Chairman Andrew Adams stated, no matter what is decided they need to make sure it is what the
City needs.




Draper City Planning Commission Meeting Minutes August 25, 2022
Todd Draper thanked the Commissioners for the feedback on this. He pointed out that the City has
historically done strategy O in that they pool CDBG funds with other cities that helps to provide
affordable housing. Staff needs to evaluate if what the city is doing complies with the updated
language

Jennifer Jastremsky stated the Commissioners will have something at their September Meeting.

7. Adjournment: Commissioner Ogden made a motion to adjourn. The meeting was
   adjourned at 7:38 p.m.




Draper City Planning Commission Meeting Minutes August 25, 2022
