Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: May 26, 2022
Re: Pye Development Agreement Comments: Draper City is requesting a Development Agreement in order to formalize an agreement between the City and the property owner with the following terms:
1. Approve a 17-foot rear yard setback on the subject property. This is in place of the normally required 20-foot setback.
2. Set the south side setback so that it is the northern boundary of a proposed storm drain easement.
3. Have the property owner agree to grant to the City a storm drain easement and require the easement be recorded at the same time as the Development Agreement.
4. Allow the property owner to access 1840 East, if they are able to acquire permission from the private owners of 1840 East.
4. The property owner wishes to relocate a pressurized irrigation pipeline owned by WaterPro. The City will only issue a building permit for building plans within the existing WaterPro easement if WaterPro has granted a waiver letter.
5. Continue to prohibit the use of the existing access right-of-way easement along the south property line for vehicle access to the property.
Background:
The Elggren Subdivision was recorded on March 9, 2006. Lot 2 of the subdivision contains a 20-foot wide “access right-of-way easement dedicated to Draper City” along its southern property line. The notes on the plat call this easement an emergency access easement that shall be maintained by Lot 2. The plat also has a 20-foot wide sanitary sewer and drainage easement along the same area. This easement is improved with an approximately 10-foot wide paved pedestrian path way that doubles as a paved emergency access for public safety personnel in the event of an emergency from the adjacent Masters Subdivision. The intent of the easement is to provide a secondary emergency access to the Masters Subdivision to a public street. The Masters Subdivision was recorded in 1996 with a secondary gated access to 1840 East. However, at this location, 1840 East is a private street. The access easement on Lot 2 Elggren Subdivision allows for an emergency access from the Masters to the public 12200 South Street. The easement also serves as a pedestrian access between the neighborhoods.
At the north boundary of the city’s access right-of-way easement, the city has a public storm drain pipeline.  This pipeline is partially outside of the city’s easement.  It is customary to have city infrastructure protected by an easement.
North of the city’s storm drain pipeline, WaterPro has a pressurized irrigation pipeline.  Their pipeline is within a non-exclusive irrigation easement owned by WaterPro.  Presently their easement also covers the city’s storm drain pipeline.  However, WaterPro and the lot owners are in negotiations to relocate the irrigation pipeline and vacate the corresponding irrigation easement leaving the storm drain pipeline partially outside of any easement.
The property owner made a request to the City Council on November 9, 2021 to seek modification of the access right-of-way easement that runs along the south side of the property. That request was denied by the City Council.
As per state code, a development agreement may not  contain a term that conflicts with, or is different from, a standard set forth in an existing land use regulation that governs the area subject to the development agreement, unless the legislative body approves the development agreement in accordance with the same procedures for enacting a land use regulation under Section  10-9a-502 , including a review and recommendation from the planning commission and a public hearing. The findings are as follows: Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council decision based on the findings listed below.
For a positive recommendation:
1.   The Development Agreement complies with the standards of DCMC Section 9-5-200.
2. The terms in the Development Agreement that are different from existing land use regulations meet the approval standards of DCMC Section 9-5-060(E)(2).
For denial:
1.   The Development Agreement does not comply with the standards of DCMC Section 9-5-200.
2. The terms in the Development Agreement that are different from existing land use regulations do not meet the approval standards of DCMC Section 9-5-060(E)(2)
Model Motions
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by Draper City for the Pye Development Agreement, application DA-112-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff memo dated May 26, 2022.
Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by Draper City for the Pye Development Agreement, application DA-112-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff memo dated May 26, 2022 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:
1. List any additional findings and conditions…
Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by Draper City for the Pye Development Agreement, application DA-112-2022, based on the findings listed in the Staff memo dated May 26, 2022, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:
1. List any additional findings and conditions… ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Vicinity Map 5/20/2022 Cover Memo Aerial Map 5/20/2022 Cover Memo Land Use Map 5/20/2022 Cover Memo Zoning Map 5/20/2022 Cover Memo Elggren Subdivision Plat 5/20/2022 Cover Memo Proposed Development Agreement 5/20/2022 Cover Memo