Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Mike Barker
CC:  Date: March 24, 2022
Re: City Initiated DCMC 9-6-080 Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a text amendment to DCMC Section 9-6-080 “Nonconformities Created by Public Action”.  The code currently only addresses nonconformities as to area and setback created by public action.  This proposed text amendment addresses other nonconformities created when a government entity takes property or purchases property for a public use, such as road construction.
The proposed amendment would permit a property owner to continue to use the parcel or structure as long as the nonconformity is not increased.  The property owner could amend the site without bringing the nonconformity into compliance with the current code so long as the amendment does not increase the degree of nonconformity. The findings are as follows: For a positive recommendation:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
represents an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For a negative recommendation:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the
request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the
zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current,
professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 3/18/2022 Cover Memo