NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA June 7, 2022 at 5:30 PM
1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020 Council Chambers 5:30 PM STUDY MEETING 1. Closed Session - by Motion The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205.
a 2. Training: Land Use Legislative Updates - Mike Barker a 3. Discussion: Home Occupation Code- Jennifer Jastremsky a 4. Council/Manager Reports a 7:00 PM    BUSINESS MEETING 1. Call to Order 2. Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance 3. Presentation: Introducing the 2022 Miss Draper Royalty and Farewell to 2021 Miss Draper Royalty. a 4. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 5. Consent Items a. Approval of May 17, 2022, City Council Meeting Minutes b. Approval of Resolution #22-26 A Resolution of the Draper City Council to  amend the Street Tree Guide. Staff: Rhett Ogden. c. Approval of Resolution #22-27 A Resolution of the Draper City Council to sign a funding agreement between Draper City and the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (JVWCD) for the reimbursement of funds to Draper City. Staff: Rhett Ogden. d. Approval of Resolution #22-28 A Resolution of the Draper City Council amending Section 4040 and 4050 of the Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual regarding establishing identity and eligibility to work and obtaining pre-employment information. Staff: Malena Murray. e. Approval of Resolution #22-29 A Resolution appointing Kendra Shirey as an alternate member of the Draper City Planning Commission. 6. Action Item: Approval of Letter of Intent Approving a Letter of Intent regarding a Purchase Agreement for a portion of the Fitzgerald property adjacent to Draper City Hall. Staff report by David Dobbins.  a 7. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1543 An Ordinance approving the Master Development Agreement for the Pye Residence  regarding the development of Lot 2 of the Elggren Subdivision within Draper City. Staff report by Mike Barker. a 8. Public Hearing: Resolution #22-30 A Resolution of the City Council of the City of Draper, Utah (the "issuer"), delegating to certain officers of the issuer the authority to approve the final terms and provisions in connection with the issuance and sale of not more than $7,500,000 aggregate principal amount of sales tax revenue bonds, Series 2022 Bonds of the issuer; authorizing and approving the execution of a supplemental indenture, a bond purchase agreement, and other documents that may be required in connection therewith; approving a preliminary official statement and an official statement; authorizing the taking of all other transactions contemplated by this resolution; and related matters. Staff report by David Dobbins. a 9. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1544 An Ordinance vacating a portion of Right-of-Way for a street known as 700 West located  south of 12300 South.  Staff report by Scott Cooley. a 10. Action Item: Resolution #22-31 A Resolution of the Draper City Council approving the Fifth Amendment to the Big Willow Development Agreement. Staff report by David Dobbins.  a 11. Action Item: Ordinance #1542 An Ordinance of the Draper City Council adopting subsection 15-1-075 of the Draper City Municipal Code regarding regulations for public property adjacent to parade routes. Staff report by Mike Barker. a 12. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held June 7, 2022 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draperutah.gov , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News . Date Posted: June 3, 2022 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.