                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                        January 19, 2022

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: January 27, 2022

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, Todd.Draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     MD Aesthetics - Home Occupation Conditional Use Request
        Application No.: USE-0180-2021
        Applicant:        Debi Babinski, representing MD Aesthetics LLC.
        Project Location: 11815 S Cottage View Ln.
        Current Zoning: R3 (Residential, 13,000 ft2 minimum lot size) Zone
        Acreage:          0.04 Acres (Approximately 1,742 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the R3 zone regarding a personal care service home
                          occupation that provides personal cosmetic services to clients
                          consisting of the administration of Botox and other dermal fillers
                          by means of injection.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.04 acres located within the Cottages on Kimball’s Lane development
located south of Kimball’s Lane, at approximately 11815 S Cottage View Ln. (Exhibit B). The
property is currently zoned R3. The house was constructed in 1997 and is approximately
2,955 ft2 in size, excluding the garage. The applicant is requesting that a Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a personal care services home occupation
that provides personal cosmetic services to clients consisting of the administration of
Botox and other dermal fillers by means of injection.




MD Aesthetics Home Occupation                                        App. #USE-0180-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                 1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Medium-High Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This
category is characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the R3 zoning classification, supporting approximately
three dwelling units per acre (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3 zone is to “permit medium density residential
development without special mitigation requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives
to foster residential development with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal
services, and to generally preserve the semirural character called for in the density element of
the general plan.” The R3 zone includes the surrounding common area of the Cottages on
Kimball’s Lane development that abuts the subject property on all sides.

Home Occupation. The applicant is the current resident of the home and has approval from
the property manager, John Sears, on behalf of the property owners, Tim and Jennifer
Jensen, to submit this application and conduct the business from the home. The applicant
has also provided written approval from Sally M. Becker of the homeowners association to
allow clients to park at the property. The applicant is a registered nurse (RN) who operates
under the direction of Thomas Rowley, who is an advanced practice registered nurse
(APRN), to provide injections of Botox and other dermal fillers for clients of the business.



MD Aesthetics Home Occupation                                          App. #USE-0180-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                 2
The operation of the business is limited in area and scope to a single room and bathroom
near the front entry to the home (Exhibits E and F). The applicant’s responses to the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit questions can be found in Exhibit G.

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are as
follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
           the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             The applicant lives in the home where the business will be located and will be
             the primary provider of the labor and work performed by the business.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
           and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

             Upon approval of the Conditional Use Permit the application will be required to
             obtain a business license, per the standards outlined in Title 6 of DCMC.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
           employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
           limited to one person.

             The applicant resides in the home and has indicated that they are the only
             employee of the business. Under State regulations, the applicant who is a RN, is
             only allowed to administer Botox or similar prescriptions under the
             direction/supervision of an APRN. The APRN is not a resident and should be
             considered as a nonfamily or nonresident employee for purposes of this Home
             Occupation Conditional Use Permit as they would be performing some portion
             of the work related to this business. The business still complies with the
             applicable criteria with the inclusion of the APRN as one employed by or doing
             work for the business.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
           other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
           city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

             The applicant will be required to comply with this section and has indicated that
             they will comply. Inspections are part of the business license review process.




MD Aesthetics Home Occupation                                                App. #USE-0180-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                     3
        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
           fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

             The applicant has indicated that they will comply with this requirement. All
             applicable storage will occur inside the home in dedicated Botox room (Exhibit
             F). The total approximate area of this space including storage space for stock
             and materials, is approximately one-hundred fifty-three square feet (153 ft²).
             Outside storage of materials will not occur.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
           exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
           dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
           benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
           provide parking required for a home occupation.

             There will be no exterior modifications made to the home. All business activities
             will take place inside the dwelling (see Exhibits E and F). Clients will come to the
             home on an appointment only basis of one per hour, with approximately 5-7
             total clients expected per week. Clients will park in the existing driveway (see
             Exhibit G).

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
           offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
           magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             The operation of the business will not create any offensive odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise that would interfere with the peace or
             enjoyment of others outside of the property.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
           primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
           disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
           is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
           for the home occupation.

             The limited numbers of clientele coming to the home will help so as not to
             disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood. The space being
             occupied by the business will only include approximately 5% of the overall floor
             area (not including area of the garage), which is much less than the 25% limit.

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
             title.




MD Aesthetics Home Occupation                                               App. #USE-0180-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                     4
             The applicant has indicated that there will be no signs for the business.

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.

             The limited number of clients coming to the home on an appointment only basis
             will not generate pedestrian or vehicular traffic above that which would be
             customary to single family homes in the same zone. Parking will be provided on
             the existing driveway.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
           vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
           would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
           shall be allowed on vehicles.

             No vehicles will be associated with the business outside of the business owner’s
             existing personal transportation. The applicant has indicated that they will
             comply with this requirement and that there will be no business signage, which
             is inclusive of vehicle signage.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
           any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

             This business will not store anything outdoors.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             Customers will come to the home on an appointment only basis, approximately
             one client per hour and between 5-7 clients in a week. (See Exhibit G)

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
           excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

             This business is not anticipated to increase utility demand in excess of that
             customary to the principal residential use.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.

             All business activities will take place inside the primary dwelling structure.



MD Aesthetics Home Occupation                                               App. #USE-0180-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                     5
        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
           conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
           dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
           this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
           letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
           case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
           vehicles.

             This business fits within the allowable list of conditional use home occupations
             as a personal care service business. The property is not a multifamily property
             but has provided approvals from the homeowners association as well as from
             the property manager on behalf of the property owners.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
           state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
           not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
           Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
           childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
           seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
           inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
           under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

             This business does not provide child care, is not a cottage food production
             operation, and is not a food related home occupation. The applicant will
             however be required to comply with other State and Health Department laws
             and regulations regarding the administration of Botox and other prescriptions in
             a home based setting. Verification of compliance with occupational licensing
             requirements would be a part of the business license review.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use
permit request is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
           conditional use permit:
           1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
              where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
           2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
              reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions
              may include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location,
              landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to




MD Aesthetics Home Occupation                                           App. #USE-0180-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                  6
                the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set
                forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
             3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
                cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
                achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
                denied.
             4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
                conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
                conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
                achieve compliance with applicable standards:
                a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                     requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
                b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
                c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                     development in the vicinity;
                d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
                e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
                f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                     transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                     landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                     circulation;
                g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                     emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                     facility or use; and
                h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of
                     the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
             5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
                reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
                can be met.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,



MD Aesthetics Home Occupation                                             App. #USE-0180-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                   7
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                 site and any construction on the site, including permitting.
        2.       That the home occupation business be conducted as described in the staff
                 report.
        3.       Customers coming to the home shall be by appointment only, no more than
                 1 per hour.
        4.       That the home occupation maintain compliance with all other ordinance
                 requirements for home based businesses, including health department
                 approvals.
        5.       Should any future signage be installed that it comply with DCMC Chapter 9-
                 26 and that any applicable sign permit be obtained before installation.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
                 alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
                 alleviate anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic and parking.




MD Aesthetics Home Occupation                                          App. #USE-0180-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                  8
MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Debi Babinski, representing MD Aesthetics LLC, for a personal
care service business, application USE-0180-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 19, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Debi Babinski, representing MD Aesthetics LLC, for
a personal care service business, application USE-0180-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 19, 2022, and as modified
by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Debi Babinski, representing MD Aesthetics LLC, for a personal care
service business, application USE-0180-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 19, 2022.




MD Aesthetics Home Occupation                                       App. #USE-0180-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                9
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.
       1.      No additional comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
We have reviewed the subject home occupation conditional use permit (CUP) application
according to the standards of the Draper City Municipal Code. It is our understanding that the
applicant is requesting a home occupation conditional use permit for Botox injections at their
residence. Accordingly, we offer the following comments related to the engineering findings,
including the following:

   1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other
      utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as described.
      Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant
      impact to water, sewer, or other utilities.

   2. The number of trips generated by the homeowner/employee and clients will not have a
      detrimental impact to traffic in the area due to not a significant amount of clients visiting
      the residence. The applicant indicated there will only be one client in an hour, and typically
      5 – 7 clients in a week.

   3. The applicant indicated that the clinic will take place at the house, though it is not clear if
      it is at a living room, a bedroom, etc. Little-to-no impact to parking is anticipated with the
      proposed use. Onsite parking is recommended, especially during winter months when
      there may be excessive snow on the street and where on-street parking may be a safety
      issue. Applicant also provided HOA approval on clients parking within the lot.

   4. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare
      of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property or
      improvements in the vicinity.


Building Division Review.
       1.       No additional comments

Fire Division Review.
        1.      No additional Comments.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
  EXHIBIT F
FLOOR PLANS
       EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
