Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: February 24, 2022
Re: City Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendment #2 Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment that includes multiple changes to Titles 9 and 17 of the DCMC including changes to definitions, special regulations in commercial zones, deviations from design standards, building design, site design, parking location, parking area design and construction, height limitations and exceptions, cross access and connectivity and other typographical and de minimis corrections. Proposed changes also include the enactment of new sections regarding exactions in Titles 9 and 17 and cross access and connectivity in Title 17.
A Notice of Intent to amend the Draper City Municipal Code pertaining to cross access between commercial developments, access points, road connections, height deviations for commercial properties, and helipads was posted and mailed on November 11, 2021. The notice for the public hearing of this application was made on December 30, 2021. Both notices included notice of intended regulations for helipads. Helipad provisions were ultimately not included in the legislative text of this ordinance and instead will be addressed in a separate text amendment application.
At the January 13, 2022 meeting of the Planning Commission the public hearing on this item was held and a motion was approved to continue the item to the February 10, 2022 Planning Commission meeting to allow staff more time to look into issues raised during the public hearing. At the request of staff, the Item was continued on the February 10, 2022 meeting agenda to the February 24, 2022 Planning Commission meeting for recommendation to the City Council. The findings are as follows: For a positive recommendation:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For a negative recommendation:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 2/18/2022 Cover Memo