                              RESOLUTION NO. 22-42

      A RESOLUTION OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL AMENDING SECTION
      1020, 2020, 3010 AND 7020 OF THE PERSONNEL POLICIES AND
      PROCEDURES     MANUAL    REGARDING   DEFINITIONS,  EQUAL
      EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY, EMPLOYEE CLASSIFICATION AND
      STATUS, AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

       WHEREAS, The City Council reviews and adopts policies and procedures to
assist in the efficient utilization of City resources and the fair and uniform
application of requirements and benefits to City employees; and

      WHEREAS, The City Council has reviewed Policy 1020, 2020, 3010 and 7020
of the Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual and has determined a need to
amend the Definitions, Equal Employment Opportunity, Employee Classification
and Status, and Employee Benefits Policy; and

       WHEREAS, The City Council believes this amendment is in the best interest
of the employees of Draper City.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

      Section 1. Amendment. The Draper City Council does hereby adopt the
amendments to Policy 1020, 2020, 3010 and 7020 of the Personnel Policies and
Procedures Manual as attached hereto as Exhibit “A.”

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution
is held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect
any other portion of this Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this
Resolution shall be severable.

     Section 3. Effective Date.        This   Resolution   shall   become    effective
immediately upon its passage.

     PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, THIS THE 2ND DAY OF AUGUST, 2022.
ATTEST:                               DRAPER:



___________________________________   By: ___________________________
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder        Mayor Walker




VOTE TAKEN:                                  YES                  NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember T. Lowery

Councilmember F. Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker
                                  EXHIBIT “A”

                             Section 1020 – Definitions
                              (Amended 08/02/2022)

Anniversary Date: The date on which an employee begins employment in their
current position.

City: Draper City, Utah.

Date of Hire: The date on which an employee begins employment with the city.

Elected Officials: The city’s elected officials are designated as part-time employees
of Draper City. Elected officials serve at the discretion of the citizens of Draper.
They receive compensation and benefits based upon laws of the State of Utah and
ordinances and policies adopted by Draper City.

Employee, Appointed: Any employee appointed by the mayor, city manager, or
other person or body with the power to appoint employees. These employees
serve in full-time, at-will positions that are exempt from the Fair Labor Standards
Act (FLSA) overtime requirements. These employees may receive all standard city
benefits, effective on the date of program eligibility.

Employee, At-Will: Any person that does not have the protections under Utah Code
§10-3-1105(1)(a).

Employee, Part-time: Any employee working for the city on a continuous basis who
is regularly assigned to work <30 hours per workweek. Part-time employees shall
not work more than 1,500 hours during a calendar year. In accordance with the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), part-time employees are not
eligible to receive benefits unless otherwise required by law. Part-time employees
are at-will employees.

Employee, Probationary: Any employee working for the city either full-time or part-
time but not yet having successfully completed a Probationary Employment
Period. Probationary employees are at-will employees.

Employee, Full-time: Any employee working for the city on a continuous basis who
is regularly assigned to work ≥30 hours per workweek.
Employee, Seasonal: Any employee hired for seasonal work of less than six
continuous months. Seasonal employees are not eligible to receive benefits unless
otherwise required by law. They are at-will employees.

Employee, Temporary: Any employee hired for a defined project or a limited
timeframe not to exceed 12 months. Temporary employees are not eligible to
receive benefits unless otherwise required by law. They are at-will employees.

Employee, Exempt: Employees primarily performing work that is exempt from or
not subject to the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).
Exempt employees are generally paid a salary.

Employee, Nonexempt: Employees primarily performing work that is subject to the
overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). Nonexempt employees
are generally paid on an hourly basis.

Level or Band: A group of positions sufficiently alike in duties, authority and
responsibility to justify the same position title, qualifications, and the schedule of
pay to all positions in the group.

Personnel Administrator: The City Manager or as delegated to the Human
Resources Director or other designee.

Patient Protection and Affordability Care Act (PPACA) Initial Measurement Period:
The initial measurement period for part-time employees begins on their date of
hire and ends after they have completed 12 months of employment. The
administrative period begins after the initial measurement period and will be one
month. If the employee qualifies for medical insurance coverage, the coverage will
begin on the new benefit year, i.e. July 1, following the administrative period.

Separation: When an employee leaves service of the city for any reason, whether
voluntary or involuntary.

Service Date: The original date of hire as a full-time employee for purposes of
accruing benefits and determining years of service. This date is reflective when
part-time, seasonal or temporary employee becomes a permanent full-time
employee. This service date is the first day worked as a full-time employee.
Volunteers: Any person who donates service without pay or any other
compensation, except community service workers. Volunteers are not considered
employees.
                Section 2020 – Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)
                               (Amended 08/02/2022)

    Draper City is committed to Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) in all
employment decisions. Employment is based upon qualifications and ability.
Discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, age,
sex, genetics, pregnancy, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity,
citizenship, veteran or military status, or any other factor protected by law is
forbidden and will not be tolerated. Implicit in our commitment to EEO is our goal
to maintain a work environment that is free of harassment, intimidation, ridicule,
or discrimination of any kind.
Policy

1. Scope. The city provides equal employment opportunity to its employees and
   applicants for employment on the basis of qualifications and ability without
   regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, age, sex, genetics,
   pregnancy, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity, citizenship,
   veteran or military status, or any other factor protected by law. The city will
   follow this policy in all employment practices, policies, activities, and programs,
   and use of city government facilities. It is not the intent of the city to permit or
   require the lowering of bona fide job requirements or qualification standards to
   give preference to any employee or applicant for employment.
2. Prohibited Conduct. The city expressly prohibits any form of unlawful employee
   harassment or discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
   disability, age, sex, genetics, pregnancy, genetic information, sexual orientation,
   gender identity, citizenship, veteran or military status, or any other factor
   protected by law. Any employee of who fails to comply with this policy is subject
   to appropriate corrective action, up to and including termination of
   employment.
3. EEO Administration. The Personnel Administrator or designee has overall
   responsibility to administer and ensure effective administration of equal
   employment opportunities throughout the city.
4. Employee Role. All employees are expected to support this policy. Meaningful
   equal opportunity cannot be realized without the assistance of all employees. It
   is each employee’s responsibility to timely inform their supervisor or
   Department Director of any evidence of discrimination or harassment.
5. Department Director and Supervisor Role. Department Directors and
   supervisors have special responsibility through leadership and example, to
   effectively implement this policy. It is their responsibility to create a work
   environment free of harassment, discrimination and retaliation and focused on
   equal opportunity in employment.
6. EEO Communication. Any communication, questions, or issues involving equal
   employment issues should be referred to a Department Director or the Human
   Resources Director.
7. Reporting. Any employee who feels they have been discriminated against or
   believes they have witnessed discrimination is strongly encouraged to file a
   complaint and/or to immediately bring the matter to the attention of the
   appropriate supervisor, Department Director, Human Resources Director, or
   the Personnel Administrator or designee. Any such complaints or reporting of
   discrimination or harassment should be reported and investigated in
   accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2030.
8. Retaliation. The city prohibits covered entities from retaliating against a person
   who files a charge of discrimination, participates in a discrimination proceeding,
   or otherwise opposes an unlawful employment practice.
                 Section 2020 – Employee Classification and Status
                              (Amended 08/02/2022)

   Based on the conditions and terms of employment, Draper City employees are
   classified into one or more of the following categories: exempt, nonexempt,
   seasonal, temporary, full-time, part-time, appointed, and elected. Other
   classifications are independent contractor and volunteer status.

   Guidelines:

   Employment classifications are important in determining eligibility for various
   benefits and to ensure all applicable legal requirements are met. Employment
   beyond an initially specified term does not in any way imply an employment
   status change. Any status change must be documented in writing. If an
   employee’s position changes from seasonal, temporary or part-time to full-
   time, the purpose of determining applicable benefits will be the date of the
   change, also known as the service date. If an employee’s position changes from
   full-time to part-time, days of paid leave accrued as a full-time employee will be
   preserved and may be used under the terms established in the applicable
   policies. All other city benefits are discontinued, unless otherwise required by
   law.

1.0 Exempt and Nonexempt Positions. All positions are classified as either exempt
or nonexempt.

   1.1 Exempt. Exempt employees are generally paid a salary and hold positions
       that meet specific tests established by the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA),
       resulting in exemption from overtime pay requirements. Exempt positions
       are determined by the Human Resources Director with the consent of the
       City Manager and in accordance with FLSA.

   1.2 Nonexempt. Employees whose positions do not meet the established FLSA
       exemption tests are nonexempt from overtime requirements and shall be
       paid one and one-half times their regular pay rates for hours worked in
       excess of 40 hours per workweek. Nonexempt employees’ wages are
       generally paid hourly and are based on the actual hours worked.

2.0 Seasonal and Temporary Employees.

   2.1 Seasonal Employees:
       A. May work up to a maximum of six consecutive months in a calendar
      year.
       B. May work more than 30 hours per workweek and work overtime during
      the specified period of employment.
       C. Are at-will employees and are not eligible to receive benefits unless
      otherwise required by law.

   2.2 Temporary Employees:
       A. May be hired for a defined project or a limited timeframe up to a
      maximum of 12 months.
       B. May work more than 30 hours per workweek and work overtime during
      the specified period of employment.
       C. Are at-will employees and are not eligible to receive benefits unless
      otherwise required by law.

   2.3 All seasonal and temporary employee positions that are filled must be
funded by an approved city budget.

   2.4 Filling Vacancies. Seasonal and temporary employees shall not be
       converted to full-time or part-time positions without following competitive
       announcement procedures as provided in Section 4020 Hiring Procedures.
       Any conversion shall be approved by the City Manager and funded by an
       approved city budget.

   2.5 Employees Must Compete. Seasonal and temporary employees will not be
       given preference when a part-time or full-time position becomes available.
       Such employees desiring to be considered must compete for any part-time
       or full-time vacancy.

3.0 Full-Time Employees. Full-time employees are normally scheduled to work 40
    hours per workweek. All full-time positions must be funded by an approved city
    budget.

   3.1 Benefits. Employees who regularly work ≥30 hours per week are
       considered full time and are eligible for all standard city benefits, effective
       on the date of program eligibility.

4.0 Part-Time Employees. Part-time employees are normally scheduled to work <30
    hours per workweek.
   A. Cannot work more than 1,500 hours in a calendar year. (The 1500 hours
      per calendar year is based on 28.8/29 hours per workweek.)
   B. Are at-will employees and are not eligible to receive benefits unless
           otherwise required by law.
   C. For the purpose of complying with Patient Protection and Affordable Care
           Act (PPACA) reporting requirements, are:
      (i) The initial measurement period for part-time employees, begins on
            their date of hire and is for 12 months.
      (ii) The administrative period, i.e., waiting period begins at the end of the
            initial measurement period and is 1-month.
      (iii) The stability period is the benefit plan year.

Hire Date        Initial               Administrative         Stability Period
                 Measurement           Period
                 Period
05/15/2019       05/15/2019-           05/15/2020-            07/01/2020 –
                 05/14/2020            06/15/2020             06/30/2021

   D. If it is determined additional workload requires a full-time position to
        replace a part-time position within a department, after the full-time
        position is approved and funded by city council, the part-time position will
        become unfunded.
   E.   Employees Must Compete. Part-time will not be given preference when a
        full-time position becomes available. Such employees desiring to be
        considered must compete for any full-time vacancy. Exceptions must be
        approved by the City Manager and Human Resources Director.

5.0 Independent Contractors. Independent contractors are not employees. They do
    not receive regular employment benefits and no deductions are made from pay
    for taxes or Social Security retirement benefits. Various factors must be closely
    reviewed before independent contractor status can be determined. Factors
    considered differ under various statutes and may include, but are not limited,
    to:

   5.1 Degree of Employer Control. Independent contractors are generally not
       under the employer’s control.

   5.2 Domain of Business. Independent contractors are generally engaged in a
       distinct business and may work for other clients.
   5.3 Terms of Work. Independent contractors usually have project specific
       relationships with the city.

   5.4 Work Location. Generally, independent contractors provide their own tools
       and work is often performed at their own business locations.

   5.5 Specialized Skills. The need for specialized skill and/or knowledge may
       indicate that an independent contractor relationship exists.

   5.6 Professional Services. Independent contractors frequently perform
        professional services.

   5.7 Contract. Independent contractors must be under contract or service
        agreement with the city.

   5.8 No one factor listed in subsection (5) are determinative. The entire work
       situation must be examined and an assessment made to decide if the
       individual acts, and is treated as, an employee or an independent
       contractor. If the individual contracts to perform work according to their
       own methods, without being subject to the employer’s control, except for
       the final product or service result, then an independent contractual
       arrangement may exist. The Personnel Administrator or the human
       resources department should be contacted for further information.

6. Elected Officials. Based upon laws of the State of Utah and ordinances and
   policies adopted by the city, the city’s elected officials are designated as part-
   time employees of Draper City. They receive compensation and benefits based
   upon laws of the State of Utah and ordinances and policies adopted by Draper
   City.

7. Appointed Positions. Any employee appointed by the mayor, city manager, or
   other person or body with the power to appoint employees. These employees
   serve in full-time, at-will positions that are exempt from the Fair Labor
   Standards Act (FLSA) overtime requirements. These employees may receive all
   standard city benefits, effective on the date of program eligibility.

8. Volunteers. Any person who donates service without pay or any other
   compensation, except community service workers. Volunteers are not
   considered employees.
8.1 Each department shall check with the Human Resource department prior
    to offering volunteer services to ensure worker’s compensation and liability
    coverage.

8.2 Volunteers working with children or in safety-sensitive positions are
    required to undergo a background check.

8.3 Each department shall be responsible for maintaining records of volunteer
    information such as name, contact information and hours donated.

8.4 All volunteers must be approved by the City Manager or designee.
                         Section 7020 – Employee Benefits
                              (Amended 08/02/2022)

The city offers eligible employees comprehensive benefits in addition to
mandatory benefits required by law, i.e., Social Security Insurance, Workers
Compensation, retirement, and unemployment. Eligibility is dependent upon
employee classification and service date. A full list of employee benefits is
explained in the Benefits Enrollment Guide through the human resource
department. Every year the city will review the benefits to remain competitive.

Mandatory benefits offered, include but are not limited to:

Retirement System – The city participates in the Utah State Retirement System
(URS). Participation in the system is mandatory for all employees required by law
to participate. (Some exceptions apply.) The city pays the percentage required for
each full-time employee. Part-time, seasonal and temporary employees are not
eligible for retirement benefits unless they work over 30 hours a week or as
mandated by state law. The city will offer this benefits according to state law. Upon
employee hire and eligibility, eligible employees will be informed of their right to
exempt and be provided with the appropriate exemption form. Human Resources
staff will certify the individual with URS within 30 days of hire.

Participation in 401(k), 457 and Qualified Roth IRA Plans – The City participates in
each of these plans. Each year the city will review the plans and may adjust the
employee’s maximum percentage and matching contribution based on rates, and
determined by budget. The city provides a match of an employee’s contribution to
a 401(k) plan upon date of hire. The maximum city participation in such a plan is a
match up to a maximum of base compensation and is restricted to the plans
approved by the city. Employees may contribute to a 401(k), 457 or
Traditional/Roth IRA through payroll deduction, but the city match must go to 401k
account.

Medical Insurance – The City participates in group medical and dental insurance,
and life insurance programs for full-time employees upon date of hire.
Supplemental life insurance coverage may be purchased by the employee.

Wellness Program – Full-time employees actively participating in a qualified
wellness program may be eligible for a reimbursement up to a maximum per
month. Additionally, full-time and part-time employees may be eligible for fitness
rebates up to a yearly maximum. Wellness program benefit is renewed annually
contingent upon proof of continued membership, and fitness rebate benefit is per
benefit plan year.

Benefit Documents – Details of benefits offered are found in materials and plan
descriptions provided to employees as they become eligible for various programs
and during open enrollment or initial employment periods. Additional information
required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and other
applicable laws is contained in official plan documents and booklets kept by
Human Resources. Such information is controlling and is available for employee
review during business hours.

Opt-out of Benefits – Employees who are covered under another medical
insurance plan, such as through a parent or spouse, may opt-out of coverage
through the city and receive a payment in lieu of medical insurance coverage. To
be eligible for this benefit, the employee must provide proof of coverage to Human
Resources at the time of enrollment and thereafter during annual open
enrollment. Under IRS regulations, this benefit is classified as taxable income.

Termination of Benefits – Benefits, including medical and dental benefits, end on
the last day of the month in which the employee separates from employment with
the City.

A. For the purpose of complying with Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
     (PPACA) reporting requirements, are:
    (iv) The initial measurement period for part-time employees begins on their
         date of hire and is for 12 months.
    (v)The administrative period, i.e., waiting period begins at the end of the initial
         measurement period and is 1-month.
    (vi) The stability period is the benefit plan year.

  Hire Date             Initial            Administrative          Stability Period
                    Measurement               Period
                       Period
 05/15/2019          05/15/2019-            05/15/2020-             07/01/2020 –
                     05/14/2020             06/15/2020               06/30/2021
