                               Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                            February 15, 2022

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: February 24, 2022

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Planning Manager/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov

Re:     Draper Galena Park Office – Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-195-2021, TEXTMAP-196-2021
        Applicant:        Ryan Simmons, representing The Boyer Company
        Project Location: 681 W 12300 S
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum)
                          and CC (Community Commercial) Zone
        Acreage:          3.7 Acres (Approximately 161,172 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment from RA1 to
                          CC zone and a Land Use Map Amendment from Residential
                          Low/Medium Density to Neighborhood Commercial.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment for
approximately 3.7 acres located on the south side of 12300 South, at approximately 681
West 12300 South (Exhibit B). The properties have split zoning and land use designations.
The applicant would like to rezone 2.77 acres of property to the CC zone and modify the
land use designation on 1.93 acres of property to the Neighborhood Commercial
designation. The intent is to bring all the properties under the same zoning and land use
designations in order to redevelop the property into an office use. A questionnaire from
the applicant outlining the current request can be found in Exhibit E.

The property includes six parcels. There are five homes on the properties. The homes
were built in 1935, 1937, 1938, 1943, and 1993. Running through the properties is an old
unimproved right-of-way owned by Draper City.



Draper Galena Park Office                               App. # TEXTMAP-195-2021, TEXTMAP-196-2021
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request           1
An application to rezone the properties to the RM2 (Multi-family Residential, up to 12
dwelling units per acre) zone was denied by the City Council in September 2020.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Low/Medium Density and Neighborhood Commercial land use designations for the subject
property (Exhibit C). These categories are characterized as follows:




Draper Galena Park Office                        App. # TEXTMAP-195-2021, TEXTMAP-196-2021
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request    2
The property has been assigned the RA1 and CC zoning classifications (Exhibit D).
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1
zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal
services; to generally preserve the character of the City’s semi-rural areas; and to promote and
preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of
animals and fowl. This zone is intended to promote a combination of retail and service facilities
which, in character and scale, meet day to day needs of nearby residents.”

DCMC Section 9-8-020 also provides the purpose for the CC zone as “provide areas where
commercial uses may be established which are generally oriented toward local residents rather
than out of town patrons. Uses typical of this zone include planned retail and office
development.”

Land Use Map Amendment. The applicant is requesting the Neighborhood Commercial land
use designation on 1.93 acres of the property. The remaining property is already in the
Neighborhood Commercial designation. The properties to the south are in the Open Space
and Parks land use designation. To the north is the Neighborhood Commercial and High
Density Residential designations. To the east is the Neighborhood Commercial designation
and to the west is the Residential Low/Medium Density designation.

Zoning Map Amendment. The applicant is requesting the CC zone for 2.77 acres of the
property. The remaining property is already zoned CC. The property abuts the RA2




Draper Galena Park Office                            App. # TEXTMAP-195-2021, TEXTMAP-196-2021
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request        3
(Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) to the south. To the north is the
CC zone and the RM2 zone. To the east is the CC zone and to the west is the RA1 zone.

Criteria For Approval.

Zoning Map Amendment
A Text and Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in
Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
               of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
               existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
               including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
               fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
               wastewater and refuse collection.

Land Use Map Amendments
The Land Use Map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the
Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists the following criteria
for a General Plan amendment as:

        Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code
        Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative body,
        shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-060(D).” That
        section is noted as follows:

        D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and processed
                as provided in this subsection:
                1.     A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
                       administrator in a form established by the administrator along with any
                       fee established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application shall include
                       at least the following information:
                       a.      The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and
                               the applicant’s agent, if any.



Draper Galena Park Office                             App. # TEXTMAP-195-2021, TEXTMAP-196-2021
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request         4
                        b.      The name and address of every person or company the applicant
                                represents.
                        c.      The requested amendment and reasons supporting the request.
                        d.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning map,
                                the application shall include:
                                (1)      An accurate property map showing present and proposed
                                         zoning classifications;
                                (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                         classifications; and
                                (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate common
                                         address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                        e.      If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of this
                                title, the application shall include chapter and section references
                                and a draft of the proposed text.
                2.      After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                        administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                3.      The planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                        application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this chapter.
                        Following the public meeting, the planning commission shall recommend
                        approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the proposed
                        amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the city council for
                        review and decision.
                4.      The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                        application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this chapter.
                        Following the public hearing, the city council may approve, approve with
                        modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning and Land Use Map
Amendment submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning



Draper Galena Park Office                             App. # TEXTMAP-195-2021, TEXTMAP-196-2021
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request        5
and Land Use Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                the city's general plan.
        2.      The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
                existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
        3.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
                overlay zone.
        4.      The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
        5.      There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
                property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
                facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
                water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
        6.      The proposal complies with the Land Use Map Amendment standards found
                in DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                policies of the city's general plan.
        2.      The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
                existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
        3.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any
                applicable overlay zone.
        4.      The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
        5.      There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
                property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
                facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
                water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.




Draper Galena Park Office                           App. # TEXTMAP-195-2021, TEXTMAP-196-2021
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request       6
        6.      The proposal does not comply with the Land Use Map Amendment
                standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).



MODEL MOTIONS

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Ryan Simmons, representing
The Boyer Company for the Draper Galena Park Office Zoning Map Amendment,
application TEXTMAP-195-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated February 15, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Ryan Simmons,
representing The Boyer Company for the Draper Galena Park Office Zoning Map
Amendment, application TEXTMAP-195-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 15, 2022 and as modified by the
findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Ryan Simmons, representing The
Boyer Company for the Draper Galena Park Office Zoning Map Amendment, application
TEXTMAP-195-2021, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated February 15,
2022.

Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Ryan Simmons,
representing The Boyer Company for the Draper Galena Park Office Land Use Map
Amendment, application TEXTMAP-196-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 15, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Ryan Simmons,
representing The Boyer Company for the Draper Galena Park Office Land Use Map
Amendment, application TEXTMAP-196-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 15, 2022 and as modified by the
findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…



Draper Galena Park Office                          App. # TEXTMAP-195-2021, TEXTMAP-196-2021
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request     7
Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Ryan Simmons, representing
The Boyer Company for the Draper Galena Park Office Land Use Map Amendment,
application TEXTMAP-196-2021, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated
February 15, 2022.




Draper Galena Park Office                       App. # TEXTMAP-195-2021, TEXTMAP-196-2021
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request   8
                 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                      Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                              Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky


 Brien Maxfield
                      DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City, ou=PW                                     DN: C=US,
                                                                                                      E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                      - Engineering,
                                                                               Jennifer Jastremsky    O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City,

__________________________________                                            __________________________________
                      email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov, c=US
                                                                                                      CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                      Date: 2022.02.16 08:00:57 -07'00'
                                                                                                      Date: 2022.02.15 18:17:22-07'00'



Draper City Public Works Department                                           Draper City Planning Division



                                                                               Mike Barker Date: 2022.02.16 07:53:47 -07'00'
                     Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                                                                                                    Digitally signed by Mike Barker
 Keith Collier       DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov, O=Draper


__________________________________
                     City, OU=Building Official, CN=Keith Collier
                     Date: 2022.02.16 06:08:33-07'00'
                                                                              __________________________________
Draper City Fire Department                                                   Draper City Legal Counsel


                      Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                      DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,

Don Buckley
__________________________________
                      O=Draper City Fire Department, OU=Fire
                      Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                      Date: 2022.02.16 15:02:22-07'00'


Draper City Building Division




Draper Galena Park Office                                                     App. # TEXTMAP-195-2021, TEXTMAP-196-2021
Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request                                 9
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including but not
      limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm
      water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse collection;

       Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities intended
       to serve this property.

          a. The increase in density from one residential units per acre to approximately
             community commercial zoning constitutes a significant traffic increase to and
             from the subject area. One single family residential structure constitutes up
             to nine daily trips and two peak hour trips, based on industry standard
             vehicle trip tables. Based on use tables, there are high traffic uses permitted
             in the zone. This increase in traffic would be limited to 12300 South, an
             arterial street designed to accommodate the greatest volume of traffic in the
             city. Traffic issues in the area are at peak travel times. A Traffic Impact Study
             may be required with a site plan or subdivision application based on the
             proposed use and projected traffic volume.

          b. Connectivity with the subject parcel to a public right-of-way is on 12300 South, an
             arterial street owned by UDOT. Access locations will be required to meet Draper
             City Standards as outlined in our Master Transportation Plan and according to
             UDOT standards. Future access will be controlled by UDOT according to their
             access requirements.

          c. There are existing storm drain facilities available to the subject area. Provisions for
             onsite storm drainage will need to be addressed with any subdivision or site plan
             application, and shall comply with the provisions of the development
             requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.

          d. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any
             subdivision application will require a commitment to serve from the Sewer District
             that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

          e. Drinking water facilities will be provided by the city. The city distribution
             system is designed to accommodate the proposed increase in the permitted
             uses in the proposed zone on the site. Any future subdivision or site plan
              application will require a commitment to serve from the city that will address
              whether the city’s facilities are adequate to provide service for the any
              change of uses.

Parks and Recreation Division Review.

       1.     The city right of way between Galena Hills Park and 12300 South needs to be
              accommodated. The developer may propose a different alignment, but such
              alignment shall have a direct access between the park and 12300 South,
              without any parking stalls.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT E
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
DRAPER GALENA PARK OFFICE

Zoning Map Amendment:

  1. What is the requested zoning designation?
     The requested zoning designation is “Community Commercial” (CC).

  2. Please explain the reason for the request and the justification for approval.
     The requested zoning allows for commercial development and activates the property
     to achieve its highest and best use. With the requested zoning, the applicant intends
     to build an office structure. Approval for this rezone is justified as the property is
     located along a major roadway (12300 S) and is proximate to several commercial
     developments. The eastern parcel of the development (27:25:302:003) is currently
     zoned as Neighborhood Commercial.

  3. How is the requested zoning designation harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property? Explain.
     The requested zoning designation is harmonious with the surrounding developments
     including two auto dealerships, several retail locations, and offices.

  4. Are facilities and services, such as roadways and utilities, sufficient to serve the
     property under the proposed zoning? Explain.
     According to Draper City Staff, current infrastructure is sufficient to serve the future
     property under the proposed zoning.

  5. Is the proposed zoning designation consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies
     of the City’s General Plan? Explain.
     The proposed development is consistent with the City’s General Plan. The eastern
     three parcels of the subject property are currently designated Neighborhood
     Commercial under the General Plan. The proposed zoning is more closely aligned
     with this Land Use Designation than the current RA-1 Zoning.

General Plan Land Use Map Amendment:

  1. What is the requested land use designation?
     The requested land use designation is “Neighborhood Commercial” for the entire
     subject property. Please note, the subject property is currently divided between both
     neighborhood commercial (eastern three parcels) and residential (western two
     parcels) general plan designations. The requested change in land use designation is
     only for the western two.

  2. Please explain the reason for the request and the justification for approval.
     The applicant intends to utilize all five parcels in one office development and is
     requesting one land use designation. The surrounding properties’ land use is
     consistent with the requested, “Neighborhood Commercial” land use designation.
     This land use would be harmonious with surrounding land uses.
  3. How is the requested land use designation harmonious with the overall character of
     existing development in the vicinity of the subject property? Explain?
     The requested “Neighborhood Commercial” land use is consistent with the overall
     character of the properties surrounding the subject property including two auto
     dealerships, a collision repair service, several retail locations, and offices.

  4. Is the proposed land use designation consistent with the goals, objectives, and
     policies of the City’s General Plan? Explain.
     The proposed land use designation is consistent with the goals, objectives, and
     policies of the city general plan. The proposed land use amendment allows for
     responsible economic development along a major roadway that will provide
     employment opportunities as well as increasing the tax base.


                                              Proposed                             Proposed Land
  Parcel ID     Acreage   Current Zoning                      Current Land Use
                                               Zoning                                   Use
                            Community         Community         Neighborhood        Neighborhood
27-25-302-003    0.93
                          Commercial (CC)   Commercial (CC)    Commercial (CN)     Commercial (CN)
                                              Community          Neighborhood       Neighborhood
27-25-302-002    0.24          RA1
                                            Commercial (CC)     Commercial (CN)    Commercial (CN)
                                              Community          Neighborhood       Neighborhood
27-25-302-001    0.60          RA1
                                            Commercial (CC)     Commercial (CN)    Commercial (CN)
                                              Community           Residential       Neighborhood
27-25-302-011    0.94          RA1
                                            Commercial (CC)   Low/Medium Density   Commercial (CN)
                                              Community           Residential       Neighborhood
27-26-476-007    0.99          RA1
                                            Commercial (CC)   Low/Medium Density   Commercial (CN)
             Community Commericial (CC)

             RA 1



REZONE MAP
             Proposed CC Rezone Area
               Neighborhood Commercial

               Residential Low/Medium Density



LAND USE MAP
               Proposed Neighborhood
               Commercial Map Emendment Area
