Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: April 14, 2022
Re: Irvine CSD Medical – Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to DCMC Section 9-18N-020. The CSD-IOP zone covers 21.68 acres of property located at approximately 344 West 13800 South. The property is currently zoned CSD-IOP . The applicant is requesting that a Text Amendment be approved to allow Medical or Dental Laboratory as a permitted use. The findings are as follows: For approval :
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.   The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.   The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
5.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
6.   The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.   The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.   The proposed amendment will create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
5.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit.
6.   The proposed text amendment does not implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 4/8/2022 Cover Memo