                            Development Review Committee
                                 1020 East Pioneer Road
                                   Draper, Utah 84020


                                          STAFF REPORT
                                        September 23, 2022

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: October 13, 2022

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By:     Jonathan Concidine, Planner I
           Planning Division
           Community Development Department
           801-576-6522, j.concidine@draperutah.gov

Re:     Elizabeth Jones – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-184-2022
        Applicant:        Elizabeth Jones
        Project Location: 13242 S. Lone Rock Drive
        Current Zoning: RSD-5-Bellevue (Residential Special District, Bellevue) Zone
        Acreage:          0.23 Acres (Approximately 10,000 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the RSD-5-Bellevue zone.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit for approximately 0.23 acres located on the northeast side of Lone Rock
Drive, at approximately 13242 S. Lone Rock Drive (Exhibit B & C). The property is
currently zoned RSD-5-Bellevue. The applicant is requesting that a Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for the operation of a
salon.

The home was built in 2010 and the subdivision was recorded in 2006. The property
is part of the Bellevue Phase 4 subdivision.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.




Elizabeth Jones                                               App. # USE-184-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   1
 Table 1                  General Plan and Zoning Designations            Exhibit
 Existing Land            Residential Medium Density                      Exhibit D
 Use
 Current Zoning           RSD-5-Bellevue                                  Exhibit E
 Proposed Use             Single-family Residential
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                  RSD-5-Bellevue
    West                  RSD-5-Bellevue
    North                 RSD-5-Bellevue
    South                 RSD-5-Bellevue

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-17E-010 the purpose of
the RSD-5-Bellevue zone is to “allow for and permit flexibility in terms of planning,
site design, lot size and development through the ability to customize the zoning
and development standards to achieve unique development opportunity. The
Bellevue project seeks to utilize this RSD zone, which provides the flexibility
required to make possible significant project, community and system improvements
and amenities. The Bellevue RSD is located between 13200 South and Corner




Elizabeth Jones                                               App. # USE-184-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
Canyon Creek, 300 East and the East Jordan Canal.”

Home Occupation. The applicant intends to work out of her home in a salon in her
basement. There is an outside entrance to the salon and a bathroom for clients to
use. Operating hours are expected to be Tuesdays and Thursdays, 8 AM to 3 PM.
There is driveway space for customers – four cars can fit side by side. Noise and
traffic impacts are expected to be negligible, with about 5-6 clients expected each
day, spread out during the day with appointments.

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request,
are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a
           person who resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located.
           Such person shall be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service
           provided in the home occupation.
              a. The applicant lives in the home and is the primary provider of
                 services.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be
           obtained from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6,
           chapter 11 of this code.
              a. The applicant must obtain the home occupation conditional use
                 permit before obtaining a business license.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the
           dwelling may be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or
           nonresident employees shall be limited to one person.
              a. Applicant is the sole employee.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing,
           electrical and all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections
           during reasonable hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure
           compliance with regulations.
              a. Facilities comply with applicable codes.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed
           two hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No
           outside storage is allowed.
              a. No inventory associated with the home occupation.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence
           from the exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose
           than that of a dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the
           dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home
           occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking required
           for a home occupation.



Elizabeth Jones                                                App. # USE-184-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   3
                a. No yards or structures will be modified.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the
           dwelling which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor,
           smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
              a. The home occupation will not present a nuisance.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and
           secondary to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The
           home occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
           neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
           percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.
              a. The home occupation is incidental and secondary to the building’s
                 use as a residence. The space used will be less than 25% of the
                 dwelling unit.

        I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26,
           "Signs", of this title.
              a. No signs exist or are proposed for the home occupation.

        J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate
           pedestrian, parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily
           associated with the zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be
           provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for drop off
           traffic.
               a. The home occupation will not generate traffic above that which is
                   normal. Clients will park in the driveway.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there
           shall be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the
           home occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No
           signage for the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.
              a. The home occupation does not have any vehicles associated with it.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not
           be used for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the
           home occupation.
              a. The yards will not be used for the home occupation.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare
           or limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
               a. The salon will facilitate 5-6 clients daily.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
           utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for
           residential uses.
               a. The home occupation will not excessively demand public utilities.




Elizabeth Jones                                                 App. # USE-184-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   4
        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.
              a. The home occupation will occur within the primary structure.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
           permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-
           family or a multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within
           this section and section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within
           multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from the
           respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case
           of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or
           business vehicles.
               a. The home occupation is in a single-family dwelling.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
           applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential
           childcare, including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care
           licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et
           seq., as amended, and the residential certificate childcare standards as
           set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as
           amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated
           and inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related
           home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with these
           regulations.
               a. No licenses are required.


Criteria For Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is
found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the
           issuance of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a
           zone where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use
           regulations of the zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially
           mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
           These conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction,
           character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation,
           and other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section.
           Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the
           conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional
           use cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable




Elizabeth Jones                                                 App. # USE-184-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
           conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
           conditional use may be denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining
           whether a conditional use permit application should be approved,
           approved with conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot
           be imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
            a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
               and requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
            b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
            c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or
               existing development in the vicinity;
            d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
               surrounding area;
            e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
               surrounding area;
            f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
               transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
               screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian
               and vehicular circulation;
            g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
               emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
               proposed facility or use; and
            h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
               welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in
               the area.
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
           reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this
           subsection E can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their
review of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from
this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and
Public Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their
review of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from
this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division,
if any, can be found in Exhibit A.



Elizabeth Jones                                                 App. # USE-184-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and
State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the
Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and approve the
application based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, as listed
within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they
include the following conditions of approval:

        1.      That customer parking shall be limited to the driveway.
        2.      That applicant shall obtain and maintain a business license from the
                city for the home occupation.
        3.      That customers be limited to no more than 7 per day.
        4.      Per DCMC Section 9-5-080(J), unless there is substantial action under
                a conditional use permit within one year from the date of its issuance,
                said permit shall expire and shall have no further force or effect. A
                written request may be submitted to the Community Development
                Department prior to expiration of the conditional use permit for an
                extension of up to six (6) months, subject to approval of the Planning
                Commission, provided substantial action is shown toward establishing
                the conditional use and the requirements for extension under DCMC
                Section 9-5-030 are met.

The findings for approval as are follows:

     1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
        alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.
     2. The proposed use is harmonious with the objectives and requirements of the
        city's general plan and this title;
     3. The specific property is appropriate for the proposed use;
     4. The proposed use or facility is unlikely to be injurious to potential or existing
        development in the vicinity;
     5. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area
        is beneficial;
     6. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area
        is negligible;
     7. The utilities, transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space,
        lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian
        and vehicular circulation are adequate;
     8. Noxious or offensive emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and
        odor from the proposed facility or use are unlikely; and




Elizabeth Jones                                                  App. # USE-184-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
     9. The health, safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or
        leasing property in the area will be unaffected.


The findings for denial as are follows:

        1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use
           to alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.
        2. The proposed use is not harmonious with the objectives and requirements
           of the city's general plan and this title;
        3. The specific property is inappropriate for the proposed use;
        4. The proposed use or facility is likely to be injurious to potential or existing
           development in the vicinity;
        5. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
           area is negative;
        6. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
           area is negative;
        7. The utilities, transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space,
           lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and
           pedestrian and vehicular circulation are inadequate;
        8. Noxious or offensive emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and
           odor from the proposed facility or use are likely; and
        9. The health, safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning
           or leasing property in the area will be negatively affected.


MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Elizabeth Jones Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Elizabeth Jones, representing
application USE-184-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated September 23, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Elizabeth Jones
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Elizabeth Jones,
representing application USE-184-2022, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 23, 2022 and as modified by
the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Elizabeth Jones Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Elizabeth Jones, representing
application USE-184-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated September 23, 2022.




Elizabeth Jones                                                   App. # USE-184-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
            DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development
Review Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject
for this staff report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be
appropriate for review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.


                         Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                             Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky

  Brien Maxfield
                         DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City, ou=PW -                                  DN: C=US, E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                         Engineering,
                         email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov, c=US                  Jennifer Jastremsky O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City, CN=Jennifer
                                                                                                        Jastremsky
______________________________
                         Date: 2022.10.05 07:54:51 -06'00'
                                                                                    ______________________________
                                                                                                        Date: 2022.10.04 11:53:47-06'00'


Draper City Public Works Department                                                 Draper City Planning Division



                                                                                     Mike Barker   Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                          Digitally signed by Don Buckley


Don  Buckley              DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us, O=Draper City

______________________________
                          Fire Department, OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                          Date: 2022.10.04 15:19:33-06'00'
                                                                                                   Date: 2022.10.04 13:31:19 -06'00'
                                                                                    ______________________________
Draper City Fire Department                                                         Draper City Legal Counsel


                      Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                      DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov,

  Keith Collier       O=Draper City, OU=Building Official, CN=Keith

______________________________
                      Collier
                      Date: 2022.10.05 09:56:03-06'00'


Draper City Building Division




Elizabeth Jones                                                                                    App. # USE-184-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request                                  9
                                EXHIBIT A
                           DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE
COMMENTS OR CONDITIONS.


No outstanding comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
   EXHIBIT G
PUBLIC COMMENTS
From:                      Dixie Lewis <dixielewis@me.com>
Sent:                      Wednesday, October 5, 2022 9:16 AM
To:                        Jonathan Concidine
Subject:                   In support of Elizabeth Jones operating a salon out of her home

To whom it may concern I just want to offer my support of Elizabeth Jones being able to operate her
salon out of her home. She is a responsible, respectful and productive member of our community. I
trust her to operate in a way that won’t disrupt her neighbors, flow of traffic etc. I 100% support her
using her home in a way that will financially support her family during these hard economic times, while
giving her the ability to be close to her kids during the day.

Respectfully,

Dixie Lewis (neighbor of Elizabeth Jones)

Sent from my iPhone
