MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, JULY 28, 2022, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:      Vice Chairman Craig Hawker, Commissioners Mary Squire, DeLaina
                    Tonks, Alternate Commissioners Susan Nixon, Kendra Shirey and Tab
                    Bingham

ABSENT:             Chairman Andrew Adams, Commissioner Lisa Fowler, and Commissioner
                    Gary Ogden

STAFF PRESENT:      Fred Aegerter, Don Buckley, Jennifer Jastremsky, Todd Draper, Brien
                    Maxfield, Spencer DuShane, Jonathan Concidine, Don Buckley and Amie
                    Salazar.

6:30 PM Business Meeting

   1. Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for April 28, 2022
      (Administrative Action)

      Commissioner Susan Nixon reviewed a few changes to the minutes that she had.

      Motion: Commissioner DeLaina Tonks motioned to approve the minutes as
      amended by Commissioner Susan Nixon.

      Second: Commissioner Susan Nixon

      Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
      Commissioners Kendra Shirey, DeLaina Tonks, Mary Squire, Susan Nixon, and Tab
      Bingham voted, “Aye”.

   2. Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for June 23, 2022
      (Administrative Action)

      Commissioner Susan Nixon reviewed a few changes to the minutes that she had.

      Motion: Commissioner Mary Squire motioned to approve the meeting minutes as
      amended by Commissioner Susan Nixon.

      Second: Commissioner Susan Nixon

      Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
      Commissioners Kendra Shirey, DeLaina Tonks, Mary Squire, Susan Nixon, and Tab
      Bingham voted, “Aye”.

   3. Public Hearing: Scalar New Office Building Site Plan Amendment and Conditional
      Use Permit (Administrative Action)
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 28, 2022
Page 2

On the request of Wes Baker and Tucker Anderson representing Babcock Design & Green Shoot
Holdings LLC, a request for approval of a Site Plan Amendment to construct a new office building
inclusive of a request for a construction of a fence exceeding six feet (6’) in height, on
approximately 1.34 acres located 874 East Pioneer Rd. known as application SPR-561-2022. Staff
contact is Todd Draper, 801-576-6335 or todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Mr. Todd Draper, Planner III, presented a new site plan for Scalar New Office Building Site Plan.
Located 874 East Pioneer Rd. Application SPR-561-2022 and USE-52-2022. The location is
down the street from city hall. It is considered to be located in the Town Center zone. It is the old
south valley sewer building. This is the new proposed site plan, they have decided to go a new
direction and demolish the current building, to provide more parking. There is still the plan to
have a rooftop deck, set back from the north will be 10.7 feet and from the east about 14.3 feet.
Blueprints were provided to show scale and a detailed plan for this project. Elevation drawings
were provided and will meet the town center's transparency requirements. The building materials
will be majority brick accented with concrete. Mr. Todd Draper stated a conditional use permit
will be needed because the applicant would like to have a ten-foot chain link fence around the
basketball court. This request is not in compliance with the current six-foot fence ordinance.
The lights the applicant has are too big, adjustments on a staff level were suggested to ensure the
radius of the light stays in compliance with the code. Site photos were provided.
Mr. Todd Draper asked the Planning Commissioners if they had any questions for him.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked if the sidewalk along Pioneer Rd would remain there with
the change in the site plan and if there would be striping on the road for diagonal parking in that
area. Mr. Todd Draper stated that the sidewalk will remain where it is and will not be changed.

Mr. Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineer, also stated that there is no plan to stripe Pioneer Road for
diagonal parking. The applicant's site plan did not include any diagonal parking along Pioneer
Road.

Commissioner DeLaina Tonks asked if diagonal parking was required in the town center zone.
Mr. Todd Draper replied that some of those parameters changed and it is not a requirement for
the diagonal parking.

Mr. Todd Draper stated they are asking for a deviation for a few of the stalls in the parking area,
and have done a parking study. The applicant plans to use tree diamonds in their parking lot. It is
a deviation as well. There are three of them in the parking area where parking diamonds will be
used. Mr. Brien Maxfield reported that the code used to allow the applicant to count diagonal
parking as part of their parking, which is why others have requested it in their site plan; that is no
longer an option now. Commissioner Mary Squire asked about the engineering and public works
review of the stormwater maintenance plan, she asked where they were and if they were
forthcoming. Mr. Todd Draper stated that usually they require a maintenance plan before
applicants can move forward, but it was all a timing issue and will be provided at a later date,
once their permit is approved.

The applicant was present and asked to approach the Planning Commission.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 28, 2022
Page 3

Mr. Zak Nugent is one of the owners of Scaler and Green Shoot Holdings LLC. Also present was
Wes Baker of Babcock Design. Mr. Zak Nugent expressed that aside from them loving the
location, a rebuild allows them to expand and comply with a growing company. Commissioner
Susan Nixon asked where they will relocate while the new building is constructed. Mr. Zak
Nugent stated they will stay close by where they currently are, there are some other spaces for
rent along I-15 where they could stay for 12-18 months. Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked the
applicant if there will be just basketball or will a pickleball also be included. Mr. Zak Nugent
stated it is a basketball and pickleball court. The applicant clarified the request for the high ten-
foot fence along the east side. The plan is for it to be behind the basketball court so they don't
have to chase the balls into the neighbor’s yard.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker opened the public hearing. He asked if there was anyone who
wanted to comment and reminded them to state their name and keep comments to three minutes.
No comments made.
Vice Chairman Craig Hawker closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Tab Bingham asked if the façade facade deviation was discussed. Mr. Todd Draper
replied stating it is in the staff reports. Mr. Todd Draper stated the Town Center Zones have
horizontal and vertical articulation requirements stated in Title 9 Chapter 22. They have additional
supplements that comply with the Town Center but they need deviations that are in another
chapter. In this case a deviation required is five feet deep and twenty feet wide. The entryway
doesn't quite comply with the dimensions, but it provides the same intent. This has all been
analyzed and reported in the staff reports.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked if the south neighbors were residential and the west neighbors
were commercial. Vice Chairman Craig Hawker wondered if there is any code about pickleball,
hours they can play or any specific things. Vice Chairman Craig Hawker expressed the annoyance
it can be to live next to a pickleball court. The noise is annoying. Vice Chairman Craig Hawker
advised the applicant to make sure their staff is cognizant, when playing pickleball at different
times in the day.

Commissioner Susan Nixon asked if the ten-foot fence was going to be around the entire sports
court. Mr. Zak Nugent stated that it would just be behind the baskets of the basketball court.
Around the rest of the court would be about a four-foot fence. Mr. Todd Draper stated in the
detailed staff reports, it stated they will have it behind one or two sides of the sports court.

Motion: Commissioner Susan Nixon made a motion to approve the deviation requested for
parking reduction, requested by Wes Baker and Tucker Anderson representing Babcock
Design & Green Shoot Holdings LLC for reducing the parking stalls from 74 to 72 stalls,
application PR-51-2022. Based on the findings and subject to the changes listed in the staff
report dated July 12, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Tab Bingham
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 28, 2022
Page 4

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Susan Nixon, Kendra Shirey, DeLaina Tonks, Mary Squire, and Tab
Bingham, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Tab Bingham made the motion to approve the use of tree diamonds
in the parking area requested by Wes Baker and Tucker Anderson representing Babcock
Design & Green Shoot Holdings LLC. Application SPR-561-2022. Based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff reports dated July 12, 2022.

Second: Commissioner DeLaina Tonks

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Tab Bingham, Kendra Shirey, DeLaina Tonks, Mary Squire, and Susan
Nixon, a “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner DeLaina Tonks made a motion to approve the deviation for the roof
and parapet variations, as requested by Wes Baker and Tucker Anderson representing
Babcock Design & Green Shoot Holdings LLC. For the Scalar office building, application
SPR-561-2022. Based on the findings and subject to conditions in the staff reports dated
July 12, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Susan Nixon

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners DeLaina Tonks, Kendra Shirey, Mary Squire, Susan Nixon, and Tab
Bingham voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Mary Squire motioned to approve the deviation request from
providing a significant facade as requested by Wes Baker and Tucker Anderson
representing Babcock Design & Green Shoot Holdings LLC. For the Scalar office building
Amended Site Plan. Application SPR-561-2022. Based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the staff report dated July 12, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Tab Bingham

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Mary Squire, DeLaina Tonks, Kendra Shirey, Susan Nixon, and Tab
Bingham, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Tab Bingham made the motion to approve the conditional use
permit requested by Wes Baker and Tucker Anderson representing Babcock Design &
Green Shoot Holdings LLC, for the installation of a ten-foot chain link fence around the
basketball and sports court. Application SPR-561-2022, based on the findings and subject
to the conditions listed in the staff reports dated July 12, 2022.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 28, 2022
Page 5

Second: Commissioner Mary Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Tab Bingham, Mary Squire, Susan Nixon, Kendra Shirey, and DeLaina
Tonks, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Mary Squire to approve the site plan amendment as requested by
Wes Baker and Tucker Anderson representing Babcock Design & Green Shoot Holdings
LLC, for the construction of a new office building. Application SPR-561-2022.
Based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff reports dated July 12,
2022.

Second: Commissioner DeLaina Tonks

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Mary Squire, DeLaina Tonks, Tab Bingham, Kendra Shirey, and Susan
Nixon, voted “Aye”.

    4. Public Hearing: Shipp Barn Development Agreement (Legislative Action)
On the request of Nate Shipp for the amendment to the Development Agreement for 2.97 acres
of property located at 570 East Stokes Ave. in one order to reconfigure the concept plan and
combine two lots into one, Application DA-107-2022. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-
576-6328 or jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager and Zoning Administrator, stated the Commissioners
reviewed this property in 2021. The request is to amend what was previously reviewed. The
developmental plan originally stated to keep the house where it is and for the farm activity to
remain for seven years from the development. After that amount of time a developer could come
in and separate the lots into three different lots. The applicant would like to reconfigure the front
portion located on Stokes Ave. Nothing will change in the back and the parameters will remain
the same. Instead of there being two lots, the applicant would like to make it into one. The
applicant will leave the existing home on the property, per the provision in the agreement, thus
making the existing home an ADU, or an accessory dwelling unit. Any future potential buyers
could build a newer home behind the ADU. The code does not allow a detached ADU in the front
yard. If the agreement is approved, it would allow the ADU in the front yard. The development
agreement would require maintenance along Stokes Ave. The setbacks will be grandfathered in
once the city acquires the necessary right of way for Stokes Ave. Whether it's a primary dwelling
or an ADU, it will be deficient. The applicant will need to have approval for the minor subdivision
to create the piece of property and do the street improvements. Site photos were provided.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked to clarify if the applicant wants to build a new home, rather
than adding on to the existing dwelling i.e., is this request to allow them to make the existing
building an accessory dwelling.

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky stated that this was correct.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 28, 2022
Page 6


Commissioner Mary Squire asked if there was a reason it needs to be all on one lot. The previous
lots would have provided the same goal. Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky directed the question to the
applicant.

Commissioner Susan Nixon asked if an internal ADU is prohibited. Are the larger lots two, three,
and four in the internal area and are there area limitations for detached ADU’s. Is there a
maximum size?

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky stated ADU’s are not prohibited in the internal area, the maximum size
for a detached ADU is fifty percent of the dwelling and the new home would need to be a double
of the existing home.

Mr. Nate Shipp was the representative on this project. Mr. Nate Shipp addressed the
Commissioners stating how nice it was to come and request for a combination of lots rather than
more density for the lots. Mr. Shipp addressed the question of why they were planning on making
the one lot versus two. He stated allowing them to have one lot provides access to the lot with a
driveway versus a private lane. Thus, providing less impact on neighbors.

There were no questions from the commissioners.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker opened the public hearing. No one spoke.
Vice Chairman Craig Hawker closed the public hearing.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked the Commissioners if they have any questions for the owner
or staff. Commissioner Mary Squire asked if the recombination would change anything. Ms.
Jennifer Jastremsky informed them that the setbacks will remain the same. Front set back thirty-
foot, side setbacks twelve foot, and rear setbacks twenty foot. There must be at least six feet
between the structures.

Commissioner Mary Squire stated these two houses could be closer together in theory because
the lot is one, and the setbacks are from the proposed lot lines.

Commissioner Susan Nixon asked if there was anything that would prohibit them in the future
from splitting the ADU from the home and would it be deed restricted.

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky stated if a future homeowner wanted to come in and do this they would
have to come in and amend the developmental agreement with the two lots lay out.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked, if years down the road someone wants to come in and
subdivide could they with this taking place. Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky stated that in the future
someone could, but they would have to amend this agreement.

Motion: Commissioner Susan Nixon made the motion to approve a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the development agreement as requested by Nate
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 28, 2022
Page 7

Shipp for Shipp Barn Development Agreement Amendment. Application DA-107-2022.
Based on the findings and subject conditions listed in the staff reports dated July 19, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Tab Bingham

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-1 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Susan Nixon, Tab Bingham, Kendra Shirey, and DeLaina Tonks “Aye”.
Commissioner Mary Squire voted “Nay”.
Motion Passed

   5. Public Hearing: Avery Townhomes Land Use and Zoning Map Amendment
       (Legislative Action)
On the request of Troy Dana, representing Draper Office Associates LLC, for the Land Use Map
Amendment from neighborhood commercial to high density residential and a zoning map
amendment from OR to RM2 on 2.44 acres of property located at 638 East 12225 South.
Application TEXTMAP-139-2022 and TEXTMAP-142-2022. Staff report by Jonathan
Concidine, 801-576-6328.

Mr. Jonathan Concidine, Planner I, reported on this project. The location of the property is just
off Pioneer Blvd. adjacent to the Day Dairy complexes. The applicant has requested to add more
lots, from seventeen (17) to twenty-one (21). Currently the land use is neighborhood commercial.
The applicant has requested that the zoning be changed from OR office residential, to RM2, which
is residential multi homes high density. Site photos were provided in the presentation.

Commissioner Mary Squire asked to clarify if the neighboring buildings in the sight photos were
townhomes, condos, or other types. Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky stated they were rental units that are
townhomes.

Commissioner Tab Bingham asked how the change in zoning will impact the traffic.

Jonathan Concidine stated the change in zoning from OR to RM2 will not impact traffic. It's
basically a change from a four-plex to a five-plex. Mr. Jonathan Concidine presented information
about parking. With townhomes there are four additional peak hour cars, and approximately
twenty more cars with the zone change.

Commissioner Mary Squire, stated that the four extra units for this just barely pushed them over
the zone requirements.

Commissioner Susan Nixon commented on page three of the staff report it says that the zones OR
are twelve units per acre and the proposed is also twelve units per acre, it's the same density, but
they allow different height.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked, to enter this complex if it would be a right turn in and a right
turn out, no left turns on to 12200 South Street. It was stated that there is an island in the road and
there would be no left turn on to the road.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 28, 2022
Page 8

Mr. Brien Maxfield stated he believes there will be some right of ways through other properties
for access, but the main access will be off 12200 South.

Commissioner Mary Squire noted there was a driveway from 12300 South that goes north for the
office building. She asked if there would be cross access for this development or not.

Mr. Jonathan Concidine stated there was cross access for this development.

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky commented that there is a cross access easement on the north and south
side of the property.

Mr. Troy Dana, applicant, presented information for the Commissioners. The plan for these
townhomes was originally designed a few years ago. Mr. Troy Dana stated the previous plan they
had does not live up to the standards today, thus changes needed to be made. Mr. Troy Dana
provided the changes in the drawings, they will be 12- 1400 sq. ft. instead of 1850 sq. ft. and is a
better project. This will provide longer driveways for each town home; they will still plan to be
two stories. The smaller square footage also makes them more affordable to those who would
potentially buy them. The zone change is better allowing 20 ft driveways, allowing parking for at
least 4 cars.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked the applicant if the townhomes are going to be rentals, or if
they will be sold to individuals.

Mr. Troy Dana stated they really could be both, they are all individually parceled and do the same
site plan for each parcel. They are creating twenty-two to twenty-eight more parking stalls for
these townhomes. It's a better development long term with the long driveways.
Commissioner Susan Nixon asked how long the driveways were. Mr. Troy Dana responded that
the driveways are twenty feet.

Commissioner DeLaina Tonks asked what the parking is per unit.

Mr. Troy Dana responded with an estimate with the garages and the driveway it is at least four
without the common parking.

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky addressed that the driveways do not count for the minimum parking
count. It is two and a quarter space that is required in the code per unit and one guest parking
space for every four units.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker opened a public hearing allowing any public comments or concerns
to approach. Letting them know that they had a time limit of three minutes.
No public comments were made.
Vice Chairman Craig Hawker closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Susan Nixon noted that an email was received late in the afternoon with more
information regarding this.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 28, 2022
Page 9


Vice Chairman Craig Hawker stated he doesn’t get to vote on this but thinks it is a better plan all
around. Providing more parking is always a good idea. Vice Chairman Craig Hawker noted that
a public comment was made prior to the meeting about this complaining about the parking in
another area. With the extra parking plus the driveways Vice Chairman Craig Hawker doesn't
think there will be a parking issue. Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked if there would be five
different HOA, how will you deal with the snow removal and maintenance.
Troy Dana states it is possible for a HOA, but not necessary, it will all depend on how they would
like to run them when they are finished.

Motion: Commissioner Susan Nixon made the motion forwarding a positive
recommendation to the City Council to approve the request made by Troy Dana,
representing Draper Office Associates LLC, for the Land Use Map Amendment from
neighborhood commercial to high density residential. Application TEXTMAP-139-2022
and TEXTMAP-142-2022. Based on the findings and subject conditions listed in the staff
reports dated August 15, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Kendra Shirey

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Susan Nixon, Kendra Shirey, DeLaina Tonks, Mary Squire, and Tab
Bingham voted, “Aye”.

There was a typo in the staff report for the previous motion, it was requested to do the motion
again with the change.

Motion: Commissioner Susan Nixon made the motion forwarding a positive
recommendation to the City Council to approve the request made by Troy Dana,
representing Draper Office Associates LLC, for the Land Use Map Amendment from
neighborhood commercial to high density residential. Application TEXTMAP-139-2022
and TEXTMAP-142-2022. Based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
staff reports dated July 15, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Kendra Shirey.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Susan Nixon, Kendra Shirey, DeLaina Tonks, Mary Squire, and Tab
Bingham voted, “Aye”.
Motion Passed

Motion: Commissioner Mary Squire made a motion to forward a positive recommendation
to the city council for Avery Townhomes and their request for the Zoning Map Amendment
from OR to RM2. Application TEXTMAP-139-2022 and TEXTMAP-142-2022. Based on
the findings and subject conditions listed in the staff reports dated July 15, 2022.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 28, 2022
Page 10

Second: Commissioner DeLaina Tonks.
Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Mary Squire, DeLaina Tonks, Kendra Shirey, Susan Nixon, and Tab
Bingham voted, “Aye”.
Motion Passed

    6. Public Hearing: Trailside Townhomes Site Plan and Plat Amendment
       (Administrative Action)
On the request of John Wheatley, representing IKON Development for a site plan and plat
amendment for 19.37 acres of property located 2124 East Brookings Drive. The property is
located in RR-22, RR-43, and RM zones. Application is SPR-58-2022, SUBD-111-2022. Staff
Contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328 or jennifer.jastermsky@draper.gov

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky presented this project. This project is different phases of the Maple
Hollow development. They were platted at the same time the neighborhood to the west was
created. The Master plan of Suncrest was for commercial use, the land use designation is for
residential medium density. The zones are currently split between an acre, to half acre lots, and
multifamily zoning districts. It was originally part of Suncrest. Back in 2015 there was a
development agreement for 160 townhomes on the property. That agreement removed the
properties from the Suncrest agreement. The plat amendment is pretty simple and they are
consolidating all of the properties into one property, they do have several easements along the
road. As for the site plan, there will be three entrance points, two on Brookings Dr. and one on
Suncrest Dr. It will be a mixture of front-loaded units and alley loaded units. They all have two
car garages for each unit and twenty-foot deep driveways.

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky stated the majority of the units do have sidewalks on every side. There
will be two buildings that will not have sidewalks with the proposed deviation. There are some
access points to these two buildings that are walking trails, but no direct sidewalk.

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky reported that the landscaping plan complies with the City’s code. Native
grass seed mix will be used, there is a deck, a clubhouse and sports courts. The elevation meets
the standard of thirty-five feet. They will be constructed of stone, shingle lap and siding. A
deviation is requested to reduce the amount of brick or stone required on the elevations.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked if there was a specific code in how the proposed development
will look, to potentially match others around them.

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky stated she was not sure. The building department was not present at the
meeting. She stated they look at the roof designs for snow, and other components for projects.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked what the plan for snow removal would be in that area.

Mr. Brien Maxfield addressed the question. Mr. Brien Maxfield stated the location is lower than
some of the higher properties on the upper elevations. They will be privately maintained.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 28, 2022
Page 11

Commissioner DeLaina Tonks asked what the difference is between the two ingress and egress
and would there be room for a turning lane that would allow people to enter. She is concerned
with the blind corner and asked if there will be a turning lane that will be put in somewhere to
help with this.

Mr. Brien Maxfield stated the applicant did do a traffic study on this and the traffic could use the
existing lane. The expected traffic out of those specific points did not necessarily require a turning
lane. The staff is aware of that possible congestion that could take place. Mr. Brien Maxfield
stated that there are three entries to the property for access to the townhomes and the better access
point is down past the blind corner.

Commissioner DeLaina Tonks stated that the blind corner is concerning to her and those who live
on top of the mountain. Mr. Brien Maxfield noted that there are other entries/exits in which people
can use the alternate access points to see better.

Commissioner DeLaina Tonks asked if this project area was part of the Travis Ridge Special
Service District and is it also part of the HOA.

Mr. Brien Maxfield replied that it was part of the Travis Ridge Special Service District, but it will
have its own HOA.

Commissioner DeLaina Tonks asked about the buildings without sidewalks, she noted that it was
great for those who live there not having to shovel the sidewalks.
Mr. Brien Maxfield stated the buildings will all be rentals, and they will have their own HOA, to
maintain them.

Commissioner Tab Bingham asked if sidewalks were a safety issue, with lots of people and kids
moving around. Especially in a high-density area, sidewalks are important in small areas too.

Mr. Brien Maxfield stated in the code it does require a sidewalk to be on both sides of the building
that is why the applicant is asking for a deviation for these two buildings. Sidewalks can be used
as for safety, requiring people to stay out of the road. Mr. Brien Maxfield stated he will allow the
applicant to explain what the plan is and why there is a deviation for no sidewalk on the two lower
buildings.

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky listed the criteria for approval of the sidewalk deviation “The second
sidewalk or portion of the sidewalk does not provide pedestrian connectivity to any unit or
amenities; Ample pedestrian circulation has been provided.” These are the findings you would
have to meet and approve for a sidewalk deviation. Ms. Jennifer noted that the Planning
Commissioners need to look at the findings and decide what is best for the deviation.

Commissioner Tab Bingham asked about the deviation for the building design standards. There
is a building down the street that is a lesser standard and the applicant would like to match the
lesser standard.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 28, 2022
Page 12

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky informed them that Suncrest does not have the same standard, there was
no standard within Suncrest that required fifty percent brick for the materials used. However, the
deviation requested is to not have to have as much stone.

Mr. Don Buckley addressed the question about the three access points and where they were
located. There are two access points on Brookings and one access point on Suncrest.

Mr. John Wheatley, Applicant, owner of IKON Development. In 2021 they decided to transform
this site, because of the name of the site being “the boneyard.'' It was where other developers
would dump excess fill from other projects that have taken place. Due to the condition of the site
and its location they found this to be a challenging project due to the slopes and the soil conditions.
They wanted to create a sense of community and have provided fifteen amenity areas in the site,
they also wanted to keep it a mountain view and update it to a highland type look and feel that
matches Draper City. Mr. John Wheatley stated he wanted to spend a little time to explain the
connectivity and explain the requested deviations. The design meets the multifamily standards
but the proposed circulation plan may not have sidewalks on both sides but it enhances the
pedestrian convenience, interaction, and safety while reducing undesirable and unnecessary
impacts to the site. Mr. John Wheatley discussed the challenge they have had deciding what will
be best for the site due to its natural sloping area. In order to reduce impact, they have reduced it
to one hundred and fifty units from one hundred and sixty. They have not developed on the steep
sides to the north and the west. A walking trail is an amenity; it is a natural corridor that
compliments street scape on the east side. Adding a second sidewalk is unnecessary. Mr. John
Wheatley noted they would like to keep pedestrians away from the street to keep them safe. They
plan to install a fifteen miles per hour sign and it will be maintained on site. Mr. John Wheatley
stated they will comply with the requests noted in the reports, and they will listen to the requests.
Mr. John Wheatley asked Mr. Jon Lee to address the exterior deviations. Mr. Jon Lee reported
they went around to neighboring places taking photos of the houses in the area. They decided they
wanted to mimic the mountain villages you see all around the world. There will be alleyways to
keep kids safe and have a place where they can go to play. The alleyways will also be possible
garden spaces. The homes serve as a retaining wall, they are made of solid stone on the first level
and cement board siding that is anchored around the home on the upper levels. It is a really nice
aesthetic. There are two types of units, the narrow unit with the alleyways, and the wide unit with
a garage on the lower level.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker noted that some of the other Commissioners had concerns about
the drive coming down the mountain past that point, with potential left and right turns.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked what the plan for snow removal would be on site, and where
they would store it. Mr. John Wheatley stated they did a traffic study, there was no congestion
due to the three different openings. He stated, as stated from Don Buckley, they put the access
entrance on to Suncrest to meet fire code requirements.

Mr. John Wheatley stated the snow removal will be taken off site and stored at the end of
driveway, this will be taken care of in a site management base. The small group of owners will
manage it and make sure the snow is removed properly.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 28, 2022
Page 13

Commissioner DeLaina Tonks was still concerned about the blind corner and urged the
developers to take this into consideration.

Commissioner Susan Nixon asked about the plan for garbage disposal and if there would be
dumpsters.

Mr. James Wheatley stated there would be garbage cans for each unit, it is already planned to
have the city garbage pickup. The bigger garbage can is just for the club house.

Commissioner Mary Squire asked why there is only a sidewalk on one side and not the other side.

Mr. John Wheatley stated there are less units on the side on the slope and they don't think it's
necessary for the extra sidewalk because a retaining wall would need to take place and it would
take away the view of the mountain aesthetic for the area.

Commissioner DeLaina Tonks asked what the sidewalk and walking trail are made of and what
the snow removal will be for this. Mr. John Wheatley responded that the sidewalk is concrete and
the walking trail is asphalt around the homes and on the upper side of the hill it is dirt. As stated,
before the snow removal will take place by the owners of the privately owned individuals.

Commissioner Kendra Shirey asked what the stone deviation percentage is.

Mr. James Wheatley stated it was nineteen percent, there are two car garages.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker stated there would be a fifteen-minute break.
Vice Chairman Craig Hawker reconvened the meeting after a fifteen-minute break.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker opened the public hearing and that any comments be limited to 3
minutes.

Casie Buckner stated she was born and raised in Lehi, and is a current resident of Draper. Ms.
Casie Buckner was sickened by the development. She stated this will only over crowd the schools.
The neighborhood would double in size. It was a lack of planning and overcrowding the area. Ms.
Casie Buckner stated it is profit motivated. Ms. Casie Buckner expressed her concern about the
wildlife impact with this development and that danger of landslides will increase. Ms. Casie
Buckner stated all the homeowners do not want this to take place.

Kyle Stephens- was concerned that the beautiful field would be gone and where family photos
are often taken, and where he and his family take their kids on a hike in the area. Mr. Kyle Stevens
was concerned about the snow removal and that there is no appropriate place for the storage of
snow. He stated that it was unfair to have this neighborhood and it will damage the cost value of
his home.

Sharlyn Chavira stated that there sometimes needs to be a development, but this is not the location
or the type. Ms. Shar Shivera was concerned about the school conditions and the overflow that
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 28, 2022
Page 14

will take place there. She was greatly concerned about them being rentals that will not fit in with
Suncrest standards. There will be more traffic that will cause problems for all in the area.

Chris Kahle- was concerned about the animal corridor behind his home in the area. This will force
the animals to be hazards in the road. Mr. Chris Kahle was worried about what it takes to pump
water uphill to them. He was concerned about the potential school inflation.

Wendy Hunt- was worried about the potential lack of police and asked why does the development
have to be rentals? Ms. Wendy Hunt stated it would potentially bring more crime to the area.

Marcia Ferrin - was concerned how the impact would overrun the schools. She stated if they were
single family homes the impact would not be as much.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker closed the public hearing.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked the staff if Edge homes and Edelweiss were not part of the
Suncrest HOA. He asked what communities are part of the Suncrest HOA.

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky responded that Hidden Canyon Estates and Edelweiss are not part of the
Suncrest Development, they are not subject to the development agreements to Suncrest. Those
other developers decided to join the Suncrest HOA, they pay the HOA fee so that they have access
to the amenities, but they are not subject to the developmental agreement for Suncrest.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker stated for the public’s information the Planning Commission listens
to the staff, if the staff allows building for soil and water, he asked Brien Maxfield to share some
information for the public.

Mr. Brien Maxfield stated that the area is in a hillside sensitive overlay zone, it did require
extensive geologic review. Conditions in that report are part of the conditions of approval on the
application.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker addressed the community stating the Commissioners had no control
over the school board.

Commissioner Mary Squire addressed the public stating that the commissions' scope is limited.
The property is already zoned, the applicant has an agreement with the city. Under the zoning the
applicant can have up to one hundred and sixty units. The Planning Commission cannot tell them
to make them single family homes. That is out of the control of the Commissioners, they would
like to see that happen as well. When the site plan complies with the city code, the Planning
Commission has no choice but to approve it. Commissioner Mary Squire stated she was thankful
for those who came to speak and express their concerns about the development.

Commissioner Tab Bingham acknowledged that the Planning Commission hears and
acknowledges the public comments. He noted that he has looked at the high-density development,
he has walked the street with the million-dollar homes. Commissioner Tab Bingham stated he
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 28, 2022
Page 15

likes the developments he has seen and noted he would like to stop any development anywhere
but is not sure he can do that.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker stated for other concerns the public should talk to the city council
on their concerns.

Commissioner Mary Squire asked if the deviations are not approved, that means the site plan is
denied as well.

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky clarified that the commission could deny the site plan which would mean
the applicant would have to start over completely, or the commission could deny the deviations
and continue the site plan to a future meeting which gives them the opportunity to modify the site
plan and comply with the code.

Commissioner Susan Nixon, stated the only way to change property is to own property.

Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked the applicant to address the public comments.

The applicant Mr. John Wheatley addressed the public comments and stated they have
professional people that will come in as soon as the snow hits to come in and have it removed.
Mr. John Wheatley stated they have avoided the steepness of the site to stay away from more
retaining walls that would take away from the open spaces in the area. Mr. John Wheatley noted
they are rentals but they are not low-cost rentals, they are high end rentals and will be maintained
by them personally.

Motion: Commissioner DeLaina Tonks made a motion to approve the plat amendment
made by John Wheatley, representing IKON Development. Application is SUBD-111-2022.
Based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated July 20,
2022.

Second: Commissioner Mary Squire.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners DeLaina Tonks, Mary Squire, Tab Bingham, Susan Nixon, and Kendra
Shirey voted, “Aye”.

Commissioner Mary Squire was not thrilled that the standards for this project were removed from
the high standards of Suncrest. That was why the deviation was requested.

Commissioner Susan Nixon agreed with Commissioner Mary Squire.

Commissioner Mary Squire noted how the applicant did not want to be like Suncrest, but then
made it seem that it was potentially like it but a lower end idea.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 28, 2022
Page 16

Commissioner DeLaina Tonks asked staff if they would have to comply with in the deviation or
just the percentage?

Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky noted it was just the percentage, they comply with all other sections,
including roof lines, architectural design. It truly is just the percentage of the design. The code
requires fifty percent of brick or stone. For all four sides. Multi-family homes had different
standards compared to single family homes. Ms. Jennifer Jastremsky presented part of the code
and stated that building materials for multi-family homes must be at least fifty percent of stone or
brick.

Motion: Commissioner Mary Squire made the motion to deny the design standards
deviation requested by John Wheatley, representing IKON Development. Application is
SPR-58-2022. Based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff reports
dated July 20, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Susan Nixon.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Mary Squire, Susan Nixon, Kendra Shirey, DeLaina Tonks, and Tab
Bingham voted, “Aye”.
Motion passed for the denial of the Design Standard Deviation

Motion: A was made by Commissioner Tab Bingham to deny the sidewalk deviations as
requested by John Wheatley, representing IKON Development. Application is SPR-58-
2022, SUBD-111-2022. Based on the findings and subject conditions listed in the staff
reports dated July 20, 2022.

Second: Commissioner DeLaina Tonks.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-2 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Tab Bingham, DeLaina Tonks, Mary Squire, voted, “Aye”. Commissioners
Susan Nixon and Kendra Shirey voted “Nay”.

The vote is three to two, and the motion passes for denial of the sidewalk deviation.

Motion: Commissioner Susan Nixon made the motion to allow the site plan to continue to
a date undetermined. Requested by John Wheatley, representing IKON Development.
Application is SPR-58-2022, SUBD-111-2022. Based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the staff reports dated July 20, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Tab Bingham

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Susan Nixon, Tab Bingham, Kendra Shirey, DeLaina Tonks, and Mary
Squire voted, “Aye”.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 28, 2022
Page 17


   7. Motion to adjourn
The motion was made by Commissioner Mary Squire to adjourn, at 9:11 p.m.
