                            Development Review Committee
                                 1020 East Pioneer Road
                                   Draper, Utah 84020



                                      STAFF REPORT
                                      February 15, 2022

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: February 24, 2022

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By:        Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                    Planning Division
                    Community Development Department
                    (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Sole @ Rockwell—Zoning Text Amendment Request
        Application No.:  TEXTMAP-014-2022
        Applicant:        Bruce Baird, representing Rockwell Apartments, LLC
        Project Location: Approximately 356 W. Marion Vista Drive
        Current Zoning:   MARF (Major Freeway Arterial Frontage Road) Zone
        Acreage:          Approximately 6.55 acres (approximately 285,318 square feet)
        Request:          A request for a zoning text amendment to the MARF zoning
                          district. The proposed changes will modify parking and
                          landscaping standards.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a zoning text amendment for approximately
3.9 acres located at northeast corner of Minuteman Drive and Marion Vista Drive at
approximately 356 W. Marion Vista Drive (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned MARF.
The applicant is requesting a zoning text amendment to modify the parking and
landscaped standards for the zone and specifically multi-family uses.




Sole @ Rockwell                                                Apps #TEXTMAP-014-2022
Zoning Text Amendment                         1
The subject property is vacant and has never been developed. The site has was rezoned
with the MARF designation in August, 2019. A subsequent minor subdivision created two
lots within the boundaries of the MARF zone. The proposed text amendment affects the
southern parcel or the residential development within the MARF zone.

ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan identifies the site as the
Commercial Special District land use designation (Exhibit C). This category is characterized
as follows:




Sole @ Rockwell                                                  Apps #TEXTMAP-014-2022
Zoning Text Amendment                         2
The property has been assigned the MARF zoning classification (Exhibit D). Draper City
Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020(C)(11) states: “The Major Freeway Arterial Frontage
zone is located at approximately 14875 South Minuteman Drive bordered by Minuteman
Drive and Marion Vista. Railroad lines abut the property on the south. The size, unusual
shape and unique location of the property allows for a master planned project with a
potential for office, commercial, multiple-family dwellings, and other uses. The property
has immediate proximity to major transportation corridors such as Interstate-15 Frontage
Road (Minuteman Drive) and almost direct access to I-15 at the 14600 South interchange.
The property has a distinct topography and exposure to freeway traffic and is located away
from single-family residential neighborhoods.”

The property is surrounded by a mix of zoning designations. To the north is the CI
(Interchange Commercial) zoning, to the east, across the rail corridor, is CR (Regional
Commercial) and to the south, across Marion Vista Drive, is CC (Community Commercial).
To the west is Interstate 15.

Proposed Text Changes
In the fall of 2021, an application for a site plan was submitted and has been reviewed by
the City. The applicant is requesting two code sections be amended for the MARF zoning
district. The applicant for this request is the same applicant that created and got the
zoning district approved in 2019. According to the applicant, they are proposing a different
mix of unit types within their site plan application for the residential component than was
originally contemplated when the MARF zoning district was adopted and therefore, a text
amendment is necessary. The applicant’s detailed request can be found in Exhibit E. Each
of the two sections will be discussed below.

Landscaping
The applicant is proposed to modify DCMC Section 9-11-105(C) to allow the interior lot line
landscape setback to include any stairway or other safety area necessary for exiting the
building. As the minimum setback for the interior lot line is 10 feet, and the minimum
amount of landscaping is 10 feet, this modification would remove any landscaping along
the interior lot line where any exiting stairs area are located. For the specific site that the
applicant is proposing to develop, this would be the northern lot line, adjacent to the other
property that has the MARF zoning designation.

Parking
The second section the applicant is requesting to modify is related to the required parking
for the multi-family development. When the MARF zone was originally proposed, it was not
known the number of units that would be built and now that a project has been designed,
the applicant is desiring to modify the minimum parking requirements.

The site plan application submitted last fall shows a total of 506 units for the project with

Sole @ Rockwell                                                    Apps #TEXTMAP-014-2022
Zoning Text Amendment                          3
the following breakdown of unit types:

            Unit Type                  Percent of Project                    Number
 Studio                                       22%                              109
 1-Bed                                        52%                              265
 2-Bed                                        26%                              132
 Total                                       100%                              506


The applicant is looking to reduce the current parking requirements for the residential
component of the MARF zone. The applicant has provided a parking study as background
for this text amendment and to show why the reduced parking may be appropriate. Below
is a comparison of the current DCMC standards, the current MARF standards and the
applicant’s proposal.

                DCMC Standards                Current                         Proposed
                 (Chapter 9-25)            MARF Standards                 MARF Standards
                            Required                  Required                  Guest Required
 Studio                        218                                                      109
                                                            759 to      1        .2
 1-Bed        2 per unit       530     1.5-2 per unit                                   265
                                                            1,012
 2-Bed                         264                                     1.75      .5     231
                                                                          Varies
 Guest      1 per 4 units     127       1 per 5 units        102                        141
                                                                       (see above)
                                                            861 to
 TOTAL                       1,139                                                            746
                                                            1,114
Based on the proposed breakdown of units from the site plan application.

As can be seen above, this project, if built according the current MARF standards would
require a parking range of 861 to 1,114 parking stalls. The applicant is requesting the
standards be modified to require 746 stalls or a reduction of 115 to 368 stalls.

As noted previously, the parking study provided was prepared in late 2021 and is included
with this report (Exhibit F). The parking study provides documentation as to why the
proposed 746 stalls are appropriate for the project. The parking study evaluated 19
apartment complexes and the sites were evaluated between November 2012 to June 2016
between the hours of 12:00 am to 4:00 am when most residents would be at home. It is
staff’s opinion that a more complete analysis would have included a recent occupancy
survey of the comparable developments to determine a clearer picture of the parking
situation for each of the projects. Since the time that those complexes were evaluated,
there has been a major shift in occupancy rates for large multi-family complexes.

Included in the 19 complexes evaluated, four of those were identified as ‘transit friendly’
meaning they are located in close proximity to a bus route or TRAX line. The subject
property has the potential to be located near a TRAX type line in the future. However it is
not known when and if that will be completed or operational. At this time, there is no bus

Sole @ Rockwell                                                      Apps #TEXTMAP-014-2022
Zoning Text Amendment                          4
service in this area and limited commercial businesses in the area. It is likely that those
who live in this complex will need to drive for either a commute or commercial business
needs.

Criteria for Approval. A zoning text amendment is a matter committed to the legislative
discretion of the City Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in
making a recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider
the following factors in Section 9-5-060(E)(2) of the DCMC:

2.       Text Amendments:
         a.    Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
               policies of the city's general plan;
         b.    Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of
               the zoning ordinance;
         c.    Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the
               request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning
               ordinance;
         d.    The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
               part of this title or the general plan;
         e.    Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been
               evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or
               welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
         f.    The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
               professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the proposed zoning text amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
The Engineering and Public Works Divisions have completed their review of the proposed
zoning text amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Draper City Fire Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
proposed zoning text amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Review. The Draper City Legal has completed their review of the proposed zoning
text amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.


Sole @ Rockwell                                                   Apps #TEXTMAP-014-2022
Zoning Text Amendment                          5
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation based on the findings listed below and the criteria
for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

2.      Text Amendments:
        a.    The amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
              general plan;
        b.    The amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
              ordinance;
        c.    The amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is
              sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
        d.    The amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
              this title or the general plan;
        e.    The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
              determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
              represents an overall community benefit; and
        f.    The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
              practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for denial as are follows:

2.      Text Amendments:
        a.    The amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
              city's general plan;
        b.    The amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the
              zoning ordinance;
        c.    The amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
              there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
        d.    The amendment may create a conflict with any other section or part of this
              title or the general plan;
        e.    The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
              determined may be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
              represents an overall community benefit; and
        f.    The proposed text amendment does not implement best current,
              professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices




Sole @ Rockwell                                                  Apps #TEXTMAP-014-2022
Zoning Text Amendment                         6
MODEL MOTION
Zoning Text Amendment
Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation – “I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Sole @ Rockwell zoning text amendment
request, as requested by Bruce Baird, representing Rockwell Apartments, LLC, application
TEXTMAP-014-2022, based on the findings listed in the staff report dated February 15,
2022.”

Sample Motion for a Modified Recommendation – “I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Sole @ Rockwell zoning text amendment
request, as requested by Bruce Baird, representing Rockwell Apartments, LLC, application
TEXTMAP-014-2022, as modified by the following:

1.      List any additional changes to proposed text . . . ”

Sample Motion for a Negative Recommendation. “I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council Sole @ Rockwell zoning text amendment request, as
requested by Bruce Baird, representing Rockwell Apartments, LLC, application TEXTMAP-
014-2022, based on the findings listed in the staff report dated February 15, 2022.”




Sole @ Rockwell                                                Apps #TEXTMAP-014-2022
Zoning Text Amendment                           7
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
1.     The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water
       and refuse collection. Other than noted below, we are not aware of any
       inadequacies of the facilities intended to serve this property.
       a.     The applicant provided a parking study using data from various Wasatch
              Front parking studies, generally from apartment complexes. The data were
              collected within the last 10 or so years. This study seeks to reduce the
              required onsite parking requirements from the existing code. In the event
              that the parking estimates could be incorrect, this would push the parking
              onto Minuteman Drive and Marion Vista. Should the parking become an
              issue, the city would have to restrict parking in area.

Fire Division Review.
1.     The Fire Department wants to make clear an issue that will need to be addressed.
       This is a unique life safety concern of how do we as the fire department rescue folks
       off the balconies within the inner courtyard, North side of the building and rear of
       the building. This area will not be able to be reach by the ladder truck. There will be
       a need for a code modification to find a way to essentially allow the residents to
       remain in place (shelter in place) allowing the fire department time to get to them.
       This would be in addition to the increased rating in the corridors. One solution that
       would be acceptable would be to increase the required rating between units slowing
       any fire spread between units if a fire was to break out in a unit. This is a concern
       and will need to be addressed and is open for discussion. (Still working through)
2.     Engineers Water Supply Analysis: Design team will provide to the Draper City Fire
       Marshal an engineer’s water supply analysis. The engineer’s water supply analysis
       will identify the characteristics of the water supply for this area and will identify the
       existing and proposed water main size and location that will supply this site, and
       identify any dead-end pipe runs and the distance to the nearest circulating main.
       The engineer’s water supply analysis will also identify the water supply capacity for
     fire flow and duration and reliability of the water supply system for this area. The
     design team will also identify the available fire flow at this site, measured at a
     residual pressure of 20 p.s.i. The engineer’s water supply analysis will include all
     flow test data, including date and time of test, who conducted the test or supplied
     information, test elevation, static gauge pressure at no flow, flow rate with residual
     gauge pressure, hydrant butt coefficient, and location of test in relation to the
     hydraulic reference point of service to this facility. Completed
3.   Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of 26’
     exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of 13’6” shall be required. The
     road must be designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency
     apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The
     road shall have an inside turning radius of 28’. There shall be a maximum grade of
     10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits being issued. Project will
     meet.
4.   D103.6.1 Roads 20 to 26 feet in width. Fire lane signs as specified in Section D103.6
     shall be posted on both sides of fire apparatus access roads that are 20’ to 26’ wide
     (6096 to 7925 mm).
a.   This section requires that parking be prohibited on both sides of narrower fire
     apparatus access roads. 20’ (6096 mm) is the appropriate width needed for two
     average-size fire trucks to pass one another. If that width is reduced by parking
     even on one side, it will be potentially difficult for a fire department to undertake
     emergency operations in that area.
5.   D103.6.2 Roads more than 26’ in width. Fire lane signs as specified in Section
     D103.6 shall be posted on one side of fire apparatus access roads more than 26’
     wide (7925 mm) and less than 32’ wide (9754 mm).
a.   Because this width is more than sufficient for maneuvering at least two fire
     department vehicles by one another, parking would be allowed on one side.
6.   D103.6 Signs. Where required by the fire code official, fire apparatus access roads
     shall be marked with permanent NO PARKING—FIRE LANE signs complying with
     Figure D103.6. Signs shall have a minimum dimension of 12” (305mm) wide by 18”
     (457mm) high and have red letters on a white reflective background. Signs shall be,
     posted on one or both sides of the fire apparatus road as required by Section
     D103.6.1 or D103.6.2. NO PARKING FIRE LANE signs shall be placed every 250’.
     Project will meet.
7.   Exterior Firefighter Access Walkways Required: To assist firefighters with access to
     the rear of the facility, a 48” wide, exterior concrete sidewalk will be installed and
     maintained from the exterior discharge from stairs back to the public way and fire
     lane. Project will meet.
8.   Fire Hydrants are required. Hydrants are required for this project. They shall be
     protected with bollards if susceptible to vehicle damage. Fire Flow of 2,000 GPM @
     20 p.s.i. residual pressure, a minimum of two fire hydrants are required for this
     project to deliver the calculated fire flow. Per Scott Adams letter this will be
     required.
9.    Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire
      Department Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire
      Department prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time during the
      building phase any of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department Access becomes
      non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked. Project will meet.
10.   No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and
      testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any
      combustible elements being received or delivered on building site. Project will
      meet.
11.   Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler shop
      drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draperutah.gov.
      A complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations.
      Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. There
      needs to be a hydrants with 100’ of the FDC. FDC is required to have KNOX Locking
      Caps. ALL FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE THIRD PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE
      SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT. Project will meet.
12.   Fire Department Connection (FDC): The FDC is required as part of a water-based
      suppression system as the auxiliary water supply. The FDC will give the fire
      department the capability to supply additional pressure necessary to the automatic
      fire sprinkler system and the standpipe system. The FDC will be located at the
      entrance to the building and will be within 100’ of the fire hydrant. The FDC will be
      located to ensure connected hoses which supply the system will not obstruct access
      to the buildings for other fire apparatus. The final location of FDC will be approved
      by the Fire Marshal. Project will meet.
13.   Standpipes Required. These buildings will be required to have standpipes. This
      standpipe will be required to be pressure tested and a Contractor Certificate of
      Completion will be required to be filled out. Project will meet.
14.   Rooftop Standpipe Outlet Required: To assist with firefighting operations on the
      rooftop and to provide exposure protection for adjacent properties, a Class I
      standpipe outlet will be provided at the exterior stairway door that directly accesses
      the roof and at the landing for all other required stairways that access the roof by
      the roof hatch. The Class I standpipes will be located in the stairway to avoid any
      freezing potentials and will provide an additional water source to assist firefighters
      with rooftop operations for the facility. Project will meet.
15.   Exterior Wall Hydrants Required: To assist firefighting operations around the facility,
      exterior wall hydrants will be provided on the exterior of the building and on the
      pool deck area. This will provide a water source to assist with firefighting operations
      around the facility and in areas not easily accessible. Such hydrants should stand
      out and have appropriate signage. Project will meet.
16.   Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to be
      sent via email to the following to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draperutah.gov. A
      complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans
      must be stamped by a NICET level III or better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE
      ALARM PLANS REQUIRE THIRDPARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE
      DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT. Project will meet.
17.   Emergency Voice/Alarm Communication System (IBC 403.4.4) Required: An
      emergency voice/alarm communication system (EVACS) will be designed and
      installed in accordance with NFPA 72 and will be provided throughout the facility.
      The operation of any automatic fire detector, sprinkler water flow device, or manual
      fire alarm box will automatically sound an alert tone followed by voice instructions
      giving approved information and directions for a general or staged evacuation.
      Speakers will be provided throughout the building by paging zones. The paging
      zones will be provided for each floor and the interior exit stairways. The EVCS will
      permit the First Responders to provide live voice commands to occupants to assist
      with evacuation and notifications during firefighting operations. Project will meet.
18.   Fire Control/Alarm Room Required: To assist arriving firefighters/first responders
      with a central location, an FCC will provide quick access to the Main Fire Alarm
      Control Panel (FACP), EVCS, and the main panel to provide two-way communications
      with elevator lobbies as required for accessible means of egress. The FCC could be
      located in the building lobby area or located adjacent to the fire sprinkler riser
      room, with direct exterior access. The FCC will be provided with heat and
      emergency lighting to assist fire command staff during the fire incident. This
      building will need to meet ALL PROVISIONS of the HIGH RISE Requirements of the
      Building and Fire Code. Project will meet.
19.   Corridor Smoke Detection Required: To provide the residential building occupants
      early notification of a fire emergency in the means of egress, corridor smoke
      detection will be provided throughout all rated corridor areas of the building in
      which residential dwelling units are located. Project will meet.
20.   Corridor Rating Required: IFC Table 1020.1 requires 30-minute rated-corridors. To
      provide the residential building occupants a higher level of protection for the means
      of egress, 1-hour rated-corridors will be provided for all corridors in the building for
      the means of egress areas in residential dwelling units are located. The increase in
      the rating of the corridor enclosures will provide a higher level of protection to
      building occupants as they travel the confined path, perhaps unaware of a fire
      buildup in an adjacent area of the building. Project will meet.
21.   Stairway Access to Roof Required: IFC Section 504.3 requires that new buildings four
      or more stories above grade plane, except those with a roof slope greater than four
      units vertical in 12 units horizontal (33.3% slope), be provided with a stairway to the
      roof. To assist with firefighting operations and ensure access to the roof from any
      stairway, one stairway will provide direct access to the roof and all other required
      stairways will provide access to the roof by a roof hatch, or have all the stairways
      provide direct access to the roof. Stairways that provide direct access to the roof
      will comply with the requirements of IFC Sections 1011.12 through 1011.12.2, and all
      other required stairways will comply with IFC Section 1011.12 to provide access to
      the roof from the top story by either a ships ladder or a permanent ladder, with the
      roof hatch not less than 16 square feet in area and having a minimum dimension of
       2’. Project will meet.
22.    Fire Service Access Elevator (IBC 403.6.1) Required: To assist arriving firefighters/first
       responders with quick access throughout the building to assist with occupant
       evacuation, movement of equipment for firefighting operations, or deployment of
       firefighting crews, a Fire Service Elevator will be provided in accordance with IBC
       Section 3007 and standby power in accordance with IBC 403.4.8.3. Project will
       meet.
23.    Emergency Responder Radio Coverage Required. Emergency responder radio
       coverage shall be provided in accordance with the IFC. Project will meet.
24.    Emergency Voice/Alarm Communication System May Be Required. An emergency
       voice/alarm communication system shall be provided in accordance with the IFC.
       Project will meet.
25.    Two-way communication will be required. As per Section 1009.8 in the 2018 IFC.
       Project will meet.
26.    Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted to
       exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the exterior
       access to the fire sprinkler riser room. (At a height of 5’ to the top of the box) Lock
       box purchase can be arranged by the General Contractor. See attached information
       form. Project will meet.
27.    2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable
       type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a
       conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and immediately
       available for use. Placed every 75’ of travel. If in cabinet or not the extinguisher or
       cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not more than 5’ above the floor.
       Project will meet.
28.    Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
       address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property.
       These numbers shall contrast with their background. Project will meet.

Legal Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
           EXHIBIT E
APPLICANT’S PROPOSED CHANGES
        EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT’S PARKING STUDY
