Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: November 17, 2022
Re: Trailside Townhomes Site Plan Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 19.37 acres located on corner of Brookings Drive and Suncrest Drive, at 2142 East Brookings Drive.  The property is currently zoned RR-22, RR-43, and RM .  The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan be approved to allow the property to be developed with 149 townhomes.
The property was originally part of the Suncrest development area and was recorded as Lots 1301-1306 of the Maple Hollow Phases 10, 11, and 13 at Suncrest plat.  The Suncrest Master Plan for these properties was for them to be developed with commercial uses.  The Suncrest development is vested under the 1999 Draper City Municipal Code (1999 DCMC) and properties in this area still contain zoning designations from the 1999 DCMC, like the RR-22, RR-43, and RM zones.
In 2015, the prior property owner and Draper City entered into a Development Agreement that removed the property from the Suncrest Development Agreement Area and allowed the property to be developed with up to 160 townhomes.  While the property was not rezoned to modern Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) zoning designations, it is now vested to the current zoning code regulations and required to comply with Chapter 9-32 of the DCMC.
This item was previously heard at the July 28, 2022 Planning Commission meeting.  The Planning Commission considered a Site Plan and a Plat Amendment application at that meeting.  The Plat Amendment application was approved.  As part of the Site Plan request, deviations were requested for sidewalks and building materials.  Both of the deviations were denied and the Site Plan was continued to a date uncertain.
On August 8, 2022, the applicant filed an appeal for the sidewalk deviation denial.  The building material deviation was not appealed.  After the appeal hearing, the City and applicant negotiated a settlement that the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer approved.  The Appeals and Variance hearing Officer’s final order requires sidewalks on both sides of some streets and there can be sidewalks on one side of the street for a portion of two streets.  A full copy of the final order and the exhibit outlining where the deviations were granted can be found in Exhibit F in the Planning Commission staff report. The findings are as follows: The findings for approval as are follows:
1.  The entire site is being developed at one time.
2.  The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in Title 9, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
3.  The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4.  The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5.  The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
6.  The purpose and intent of the development standards set forth in DCMC Chapter 9-32 are met.
The findings for denial as are follows:
1.  The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in Title 9, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
2.  The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
3.  The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
4.  The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
5.  The purpose and intent of the development standards set forth in DCMC Chapter 9-32 are not being met. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report Part 1 11/10/2022 Backup Material PC Staff Report Part 2 11/10/2022 Backup Material