Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: December 6, 2022
Re: Residences at Draper Hills – Zoning Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 2.26 acres located on the west side of Bangerter Parkway, at approximately 14178 S. Bangerter Parkway. The property is currently zoned CG (General Commercial). The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant portion of the site as multifamily residences under the RM2 (Multi-family Residential). Only the vacant portion of the lot is proposed to be rezoned.
The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their August 25, 2022 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation on a 5-0 vote.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.      The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4.      The proposed amendment should not adversely affect adjacent property; and
5.      The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are adequate.
For denial:
1.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.      The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4.      The proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent property; and
5.      The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are not adequate. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1562 11/29/2022 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 11/29/2022 Cover Memo