MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2022,
IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:             Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha
                     Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey

EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:       David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Kellie
                     Challburg, Chief of Staff; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; Todd Draper,
                     Planner; John Eining, Police Chief; Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning
                     Manager; Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager; Rhett Ogden,
                     Recreation Director; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson,
                     Communications Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen, IT;
                     and Bob Wylie, Finance Director

______________________________________________________________________________________________

Study Session

1.0    Council/Manager Reports

1.1    City Manager David Dobbins reported that he and the Mayor had met with someone
       from the State Courts, as Judge Bertch would retire that year. He explained it was a
       lengthy process to select a new judge, and briefly outlined the steps of the selection
       process. He said that the City Council would have to approve the final
       recommendation for the new judge. He anticipated that they would begin the
       process in March of that year. It was discussed that a new judge might not have full
       time work in Draper, and that there were judges in surrounding cities that serviced
       multiple towns. It was mentioned that if Draper hired a full time judge, the judge
       would not be allowed to do any other legal work, and if they had a part-time judge,
       they could share the judge with another city that also only needed a part-time
       judge.

1.2    Mr. Dobbins said that he had been approached by Lime Scooters, who wanted to
       know if Draper was interested in having scooters around the town. He recalled that
       in the past, Lime had not complied with the terms of the agreement that had been
       set forth between the company and the City. Mr. Dobbins said that there had been
       issues in terms of enforcement, and asked the Council if they wanted to try working
       with Lime again. The Councilmembers discussed that they did not see a huge
       demand for the scooters, and remembered that when they had had scooters in
       Draper in the past that there had been many complaints about them. The
       Councilmembers felt that the scooters were a hassle that did not bring revenue into


                                                                                   1|Page
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – February 1, 2022
      the City. Mr. Dobbins said that he would tell Lime that Draper was not interested in
      adding scooters to the City.

1.3   Councilmember Roberts reported that the Traverse Ridge Special Service District
      Administrative Control Board (TRSSDACB) had held a meeting last night, and they
      had determined a rate for the tax increase. Councilmember Roberts stated that the
      Council should assist TRSSDACB with the process of changing the tax rate as much
      as possible, and reported that the members of the TRSSDACB seemed to be in
      better spirits than they had been in previous meetings. The Councilmembers
      commented that the TRSSDACB was about to be entirely out of money. Mr. Dobbins
      noted that in the past, the TRSSDACB had been very opposed to accept help from
      the City Council, but that had now changed as their situation became more dire.
      Councilmember Roberts suggested that the Council take over the administrative
      control of the TRSSD, but have the TRSSDACB members stay on as an advisory
      board that could act as a liaison between the residents and the Council.

1.4   Mr. Dobbins spoke about issues with parking in the South Mountain area and noted
      that it posed a safety issue as emergency access was limited. Fire Chief Clint Smith
      said that the main issue with access was not enough off-street parking for
      emergency vehicles to park when they responded to emergencies. He said that
      “emergency access” referred to not only their ability to drive to the scene of an
      accident, but also the ability to have safe operations while on the scene. He
      elaborated that they needed to be able to easily access gurneys and other
      equipment from the outside of the vehicles, and maneuver fire hoses around the
      vehicles. He said that without proper clearance, it limited the Fire Department’s
      ability to respond efficiently to an emergency.

      Mr. Dobbins stated that the parking was on the opposite side of the street from the
      fire hydrants, to allow for easier access.

      Councilmember F. Lowry commented that he had heard from many people in that
      part of the City that had complaints about the parking situation there, and the
      Councilmembers discussed that there needed to be more enforcement of parking
      violations in that area in order to mitigate issues.

1.5   Councilmember Green asked if it would be feasible to cover the recycling center in
      Draper in some way, and Mayor Walker clarified that he was talking about the
      center where people could recycle their glass, cardboard, and other materials. The
      Councilmembers briefly discussed that they could create some kind of enclosure
      around the dumpsters so that it was not as unsightly.

1.6   Councilmember Green also said that he wanted to make sure that residents who
      already had an Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) could be grandfathered in, so that

                                                                                2|Page
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – February 1, 2022
      they would not have to pay the new fees that were a part of the new ADU bill. Ms.
      Jastremsky said that the residents would have to show proof that they had applied
      for a conditional use permit for their ADU in the past, and said that the City should
      have records of those permits as well, although they might be difficult to find
      records that were decades old.

1.7   Councilmember F. Lowry mentioned that they had set a date for the Renaissance
      Faire that would be held at the Andy Ballard Arena, and decided on June 10th to
      11th.

1.8   Mayor Walker reported that he had been invited to sit in on a meeting of the Utah
      State Legislature, and said that they had discussed the land use authority. He
      discussed some of the highlights of the meeting, and said that they wanted to figure
      out how they could increase affordable housing in cities in Utah. He added that he
      felt that Utah set the gold standard in planning infrastructure around
      transportation. He recalled it was a nice meeting, and felt everyone had been very
      productive and kind.

Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

2.1   Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director offered the prayer. Police Lieutenant
      Dave Harris led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0   Public Comments

3.1   Todd Shoemaker told a story of a couple, John and Mary Smith, of Carson City
      Nevada. He said that they lived close by a prison which had closed, and now the
      prison offered a two-hour tour of the grounds. He stated that John and Mary Smith
      had taken a tour of old prisons around the United States, and outlined their trip and
      the states that they visited. He reported that they had been thankful that state
      officials had not closed the prisons, and allowed them to be viewed by the public.
      Mr. Shoemaker then stated that the couple had discovered that in Utah, there were
      no prisons that could be viewed, and in Draper, the prison had been demolished
      instead of being preserved. He commented that John and Mary Smith thought this
      was a great shame, and thought that the Draper prison should have been
      preserved.

4.0   Consent Items

      a.     Approval of January 11, 2022, and January 18, 2022, City Council Meeting
             Minutes.

                                                                                  3|Page
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – February 1, 2022
      b.     Approval of Resolution #22-05, a Resolution appointing Katie Blankenagel as
             a member of the Draper City Historic Preservation Commission.

      c.     Approval of Resolution #22-07, a Resolution authorizing the Mayor of the City
             of Draper to appoint Malena Murray as Human Resources Director for
             Draper.

4.1   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve the Consent Items. Councilmember
      F. Lowry seconded the motion.

4.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

5.0   Action Item: Resolution #22-06, a Resolution of the Draper City Council approving a
      non-exclusive license agreement between Draper City and Google Fiber Utah, LLC
      for the installation of network facilities in the public right-of- way.

5.1   Mr. Dobbins explained that the Council had been asked to give permits to Google
      Fiber that would allow them to install fiber optic cables throughout the City. He
      clarified that this would be separate from a contract or an agreement, and then
      introduced Jacob Brace with Google Fiber.

5.2   Mr. Brace, with Google Fiber, spoke and said that he was excited for the options that
      Google Fiber would bring to Draper. He felt it was an exciting investment for higher
      education, small businesses, and remote work opportunities for Draper residents.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked about the timeline, and Mr. Brace said that they
      first needed a license agreement before they could start on a design process. He
      said that he hoped to have their plans presented to the City Staff by the spring, with
      construction beginning shortly thereafter.

      Councilmember Roberts asked what the challenges were in getting fiber optics up to
      SunCrest. Mr. Brace replied that there were geological issues, and said that the
      Google engineers would need to make a preliminary design to see what could be
      done in that area.

      Councilmember T. Lowery reported that she had heard a lot of support from Draper
      residents about Google Fiber. Mr. Dobbins also clarified that this would be done at
      no cost to the City, and Google would cover the cost of installation.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if there would be any disruption to the roads, and
      Mr. Brace replied that there would be road closures, but the team worked quickly
      and the roads would not be closed for long. He added that they would work with
      the City Engineer to ensure that the roads would be fully restored, and there would
      be no permanent damage to the streets.

                                                                                 4|Page
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – February 1, 2022
      Mr. Brace explained that the entire City would not go online at the same time, but it
      would be a gradual process that went by neighborhood. He said that the rollout
      would go in sections, as the cables were installed. He said that it would be a
      contiguous build coming out of Sandy, and added that they were still building in
      Sandy.

5.3   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Resolution #22-06. Councilmember
      Roberts seconded the motion.

5.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1524, (Legislative Item), an Ordinance amending the
      official zoning map of Draper City for approximately 0.648 acres of property from A5
      (Agricultural, 5- acre minimum lot size) to RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000
      square foot minimum lot size), located at approximately 1641 East Costanza Way
      within Draper City, otherwise known as the McClure Rezone Zoning Map
      Amendment.

6.1   Planner, Todd Draper gave a brief overview of the parcel of land in question, and
      indicated where it was located in the City. He explained that the applicants wished
      to change the zone of the property. He stated that the Planning Commission had
      reviewed this issue, and recommended unanimous approval of the rezone. Mr.
      Draper also shared some site photos.

6.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor Walker
      closed the public hearing.

6.3   Councilmember Green moved to approve Ordinance #1524. Councilmember
      Vawdrey seconded the motion.

6.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1525 (Legislative Action), an Ordinance amending the
      official Zoning Map of Draper City for approximately 1.43 acres of property from
      RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) to R4 (Single Family
      Residential, 10,000 square foot lot minimum), located approximately at 1595 East
      12700 South within Draper City, otherwise known as the Reynolds Home Zoning
      Map Amendment.

7.1   Ms. Jastremsky gave an overview of the rezone request, and shared a map that
      showed the location of the properties in question. She stated that the property
      owners had done a boundary adjustment last year to match the historical

                                                                                5|Page
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – February 1, 2022
      boundaries of the lots, but the adjustment had made the lots smaller than the
      minimum lot size allowed in the RA2 zone. She explained that the property owners
      wanted to rezone the lots to a zone that would allow a smaller lot size, so that they
      would be in accordance with the City Code.

7.2   Corianne Reynolds introduced herself as the daughter of one of the applicants, and
      said that her parents had lived in Draper for 37 years and loved the community.
      She said that her parents wanted to be able to build a smaller home on the lot for
      them to retire in, and that was part of the reasoning to make the lot sizes smaller.

7.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor Walker
      closed the public hearing.

7.4   Councilmember Green moved to approve Ordinance #1525. Councilmember
      Roberts seconded the motion.

7.5   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

8.0   Adjournment

8.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting.

8.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

8.3   The meeting adjourned at 7:49 p.m.




                                                                                 6|Page
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – February 1, 2022
