                                  Development Review Committee
                                       1020 East Pioneer Road
                                         Draper, Utah 84020



                                            STAFF REPORT
                                            August 30, 2022

To:                   Draper City Planning Commission
                      Business Date: September 8, 2022

From:                 Development Review Committee

Prepared By:          Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                      Planning Division
                      Community Development Department
                      (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:      Lone Peak Business Park CSD Modifications –Zoning Text Amendment
         Application No.: TEXTMAP-125-2021
         Applicant:        David Driggs of Price Real Estate
         Project Location: Approximately northwest corner of 12300 South and Lone Peak
                           Parkway
         Current Zoning: CSD-LP (Lone Peak Commercial Special District)
         Request:          A request to amend various sections of the text of the Lone Peak
                           Commercial Special District (CSD-LP) to update and modify the
                           zoning.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
The applicant owns several of the properties within the CSD and has done a majority of the
development in the CSD. In 2012, the applicant proposed a commercial special district on
the properties which was subsequently approved in June, 2012 (Exhibits B and C). Since the
approval, several buildings have been constructed within the boundaries of the CSD. There
are currently some vacant lots and the applicant has requested this text amendment to
modify some of the standards which may be outdated or not compatible with current
development processes. A similar text amendment for the boundaries of the CSD was
approved by City Council July 2019. That text amendment was requested by the applicant

Lone Peak Business Park CSD Modifications                        App. #TEXTMAP-125-2021
Zoning Text Amendment                              1
to modify some of the standards which may have been outdated or not compatible with
current development processes. Specifically design standards and required materials and
signs are proposed to be updated. The applicant has a companion application to be heard
at this meeting also to expand with boundaries of the CSD with one property across Lone
Peak Parkway. That application is for a land use and zoning map amendment.



ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                    General Plan and Zoning Designations                       Exhibit
 Existing Land Use          Commercial Special District                                Exhibit D
 Current Zoning             CSD-LP                                                     Exhibit E
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                    CBP (Business/Manufacturing Park) and CSD-LP
    West                    A5 (Agricultural, 5 acre minimum), R3 (Single Family
                            Residential, 13,000 square foot lot minimum) and
                            RM1 (Multiple Family Residential)
     North                  R3
     South                  CBP and CR (Regional Commercial)

The Commercial Special District land use designation is characterized as follows:




Lone Peak Business Park CSD Modifications                              App. #TEXTMAP-125-2021
Zoning Text Amendment                              2
The property has been assigned the CSD-LP zoning classification. This zoning designation
supports a variety of uses primarily geared toward manufacturing and office. The CSD-LP
zone per Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-18G-010 is “is a master planned
project with multiple architecturally compatible buildings fronting along 12300 South,
Draper City’s major commercial corridor, and Lone Peak Parkway, Draper City’s major
commercial/industrial corridor.”




Lone Peak Business Park CSD Modifications                        App. #TEXTMAP-125-2021
Zoning Text Amendment                        3
PROPOSED CHANGES
Below is a summary of the proposed changes to the CSD standards. The full text of the
changes can be found in Exhibit F attached to this staff report. Items which are not
proposed to be changed will not be analyzed.

Section 9-18G-030: The current list of preferred permitted uses has been incorporated
into the permitted use section with a few updates and clarifications to those uses.
Analysis: The uses are typical in this type of development and CSD.

Section 9-18G-040: Conditional uses have been updated also and references to the
preferred permitted uses has been removed.
Analysis: The uses are typical in this type of development and CSD.

Section 9-18G-050(A)(1)(c-d): The design elements for retail and office have been updated
to include shipping container elements or finishes that appear as shipping containers.
Analysis: The applicant does not desire to have shipping containers as retail or office
building, but rather designs of the buildings can be artistic and have portions of a shipping
container type design as evidenced in the exhibits.

Section 9-18G-050(A)(2)(e) – removed section: Required parking for industrial has been
removed.
Analysis: This was an error in a previous update and all parking requirements in 9-18G-060
are the desired parking ratios.

Section 9-18G-050(A)(2)(f-i): The subsections have been assigned a different letter based
on additions and subtractions to the text.

Section 9-18G-050(A)(2)(i): This section contains the industrial building preferred design
elements. These are currently contained in the exhibits of the CSD and it is more
appropriate to locate them with the retail and office design elements of the written portion
of code.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with this change.

Section 9-18G-050(B)(14): This change clarifies that any outdoor art proposed by the
owner within the CSD is limited to 50 feet in height.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with this change.

Section 9-18G-080(B): Updates the text to refer to the correct and updated exhibits.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees.

Section 9-18G-080(C)(6): Clarifies that monument signs taller than 30 inches in height shall
not be located in a public right-of-way or a clear view triangle.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees.

Lone Peak Business Park CSD Modifications                         App. #TEXTMAP-125-2021
Zoning Text Amendment                         4
Section 9-18G-080(D): Updates the text to refer to the correct and updated exhibits.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees.

Section 9-18G-080(F)(1): Clarifies that A-frame signs are permitted.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with this change.

Section 9-18G-080(F)(2): This section has been removed as it references exhibits that are
no longer included in the CSD.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with this change.

Section 9-18G-080(G)(1-5): The wall sign section has been updated to allow more flexibility
for tenants and to allow blade signs if the tenant desires. It also allows for signs on all
sides of a building and if there are separate entrances, signs for employee entrances or
company divisions are permitted. The size of the wall signs allowed is not proposed to be
changed.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with this change.

Section 9-18G-080(H): Removes references to an outdated exhibit.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with this change.

Section 9-18G-080(J): Removes references to an outdated exhibit.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with this change.

Section 9-18G-080(N): Adds a new section for a type of sign called L shaped signs due to
their design looking like an inverted L. They will not exceed 25 feet in height and will be
similar in design to the existing archway sign located over 265 West. The difference with
these signs is that the top horizontal bar will not exceed six feet in height.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with this change. This type of sign is replacing the pylon
signs that are currently allowed in the CSD.

Section 9-18G-080(O): This is a new section that will allow an electronic message center
(EMC) or digital sign in the CSD. At this time, the exhibits show one EMC located below the
existing Starbucks pole sign on 12300 South. Should the applicant desire more EMC’s, the
sign exhibit would need to be amended through a text amendment to allow for more
EMC’s. The proposed language requires all EMC’s to comply with the standards outlined in
the regular sign code in regards to EMC quality.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with this change.

Section 9-18G-085: This change updates the site plan review section to the standard
language that is now required in all CSD’s. It clarifies the approval process and also that if a
standard is not addressed in the CSD, it will revert the zoning code for a development
standard.

Lone Peak Business Park CSD Modifications                           App. #TEXTMAP-125-2021
Zoning Text Amendment                          5
Analysis: Planning staff requested this change be incorporate and agrees with the
proposed language.

Section 9-18G-090: All exhibits have been updated to modernize the CSD and simplified
where possible. Outdated exhibits or language have been removed or incorporated into
the text of the CSD. The exhibits have also been updated to reflect the request to expand
the boundaries of the CSD with a companion application being processed at the same time.
The 0.61 acre parcel is located across Lone Peak Parkway and south of the small triangular
parcel that is currently within the boundaries of the CSD.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with the proposed changes.

Criteria For Approval.
Zoning Text Amendment
A Text Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council
and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the
City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-
060(E)(2) of the DCMC:

2.       Text Amendments:
         a.    Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
               policies of the city's general plan;
         b.    Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of
               the zoning ordinance;
         c.    Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the
               request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning
               ordinance;
         d.    The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
               part of this title or the general plan;
         e.    Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been
               evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or
               welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
         f.    The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
               professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the land use and zoning map amendments submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their review of the land use and zoning map amendments
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Lone Peak Business Park CSD Modifications                         App. #TEXTMAP-125-2021
Zoning Text Amendment                          6
Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the land use and zoning map amendments submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the land use
and zoning map amendments submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the land use
and zoning map amendments submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendations based on the findings listed below and the
criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:

         1.       That Section 9-5-060(E) provides for and outlines the process for amending
                  the text of the DCMC.
         2.       That this text amendment does not compromise any of the 6 factors listed in
                  Section 9-5-060(E)(2).
         3.       That the proposed text change is consistent with the goals, objectives and
                  policies of the City’s General Plan.

The findings for a negative recommendation are as follows:

         1.       That this text amendment compromises one or more of the 6 factors listed in
                  Section 9-5-060(E)(2).
         2.       That the proposed text change is not consistent with the goals, objectives
                  and policies of the City’s General Plan.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the zoning text amendment, as requested by David Driggs of Price Real


Lone Peak Business Park CSD Modifications                          App. #TEXTMAP-125-2021
Zoning Text Amendment                           7
Estate, application TEXTMAP-125-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the staff report dated August 30, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the zoning text amendment, as requested by David Driggs of Price
Real Estate, application TEXTMAP-125-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the staff report dated August 30, 2022 and as modified by the findings
and conditions below:

         1.       List any additional findings and conditions . . .

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the zoning text amendment, as requested by David Driggs of Price Real Estate,
application TEXTMAP-125-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the staff report dated August 30, 2022.




Lone Peak Business Park CSD Modifications                             App. #TEXTMAP-125-2021
Zoning Text Amendment                              8
               DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                                                                                            Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                    Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                      DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov,

  Brien Maxfield
                    DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City, ou=PW -
                    Engineering,
                    email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov, c=US
                    Date: 2022.08.31 09:30:08 -06'00'
                                                                      Keith Collier         O=Draper City, OU=Building Official, CN=Keith
                                                                                            Collier
                                                                                            Date: 2022.09.01 05:51:40-06'00'



Draper City Public Works Division                                     Draper City Building Division


                                                                                            Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                    Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                                                                                            DN: C=US, E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                    DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,
                                                                      Jennifer Jastremsky
Don Buckley
                                                                                            O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City, CN=Jennifer
                    O=Draper City Fire Department, OU=Fire Marshal,                         Jastremsky
                    CN=Don Buckley                                                          Date: 2022.08.31 12:02:18-06'00'
                    Date: 2022.08.31 08:26:23-06'00'

Draper City Fire Department                                           Draper City Planning Division


                                                                                         Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                                                                      Mike Barker        Date: 2022.08.31 07:59:42
                                                                                         -06'00'

                                                                      Draper City Legal Counsel
                               DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No additional comments.

Fire Division Review.
No additional comments.

Legal Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
    EXHIBIT F
PROPOSED CHANGES
ARTICLE G. LONE PEAK COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICT



9-18G-030: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in the LPCSD. The following preferred permitted uses are
critical permitted uses to accelerate and preserve the unique business environment in the
LPCSD. Additional permitted uses are listed below that will further solidify the vitality and
diversity of the business interests in the LPCSD: (Ord. 1016, 6-5-2012)

A.     Preferred permitted uses:
       Manufacturing (controlled).
       Manufacturing, limited.
       Medical or dental laboratory.
       Office, general.
       Research service.
       Technology based research and development.
       Wholesale and warehousing, restricted, provided it is not within eighty feet (80') of
       any Residentially zoned property adjacent to the perimeter of the LPCSD. (Ord.
       1016, 6-5-2012; amd. Ord. 1085, 3-4-2014)

B.     Other permitted uses:
       Agriculture.
       Bank or financial institution.
       Business equipment rental and supplies.
       Business service.
       Car wash, commercial vehicles, in conjunction with a preferred another permitted
       use defined above.
       Commercial vehicle and equipment rental or sale.
       Commercial vehicle and equipment repair, in conjunction with a preferredanother
       permitted use defined above.
       Construction sales and service.
       Convenience store.
       Cultural service.
       Franchise Municipal use.
       Gasoline service station, but only in conjunction with a convenience store within the
       LPCSD.
       Government service.
       Higher education facility, private.
       Higher education facility, public.
       Hotel.
       Laundry or dry cleaning, limited.
       Laundry services.
       Low power radio services facility.
      Manufacturing, general.
      Manufacturing, limited.
      Media service.
      Medical cannabis pharmacy.
      Medical or dental laboratory.
      Medical service.
      Motel or motor lodge.
      Municipal use.
      Personal care service.
      Personal instruction service.
      Post Office.
      Printing and copying, limited.
      Printing, general.
      Protective service.
      Public utility substation.
      Recreation and entertainment, indoor.
      Repair service.
      Restaurant, fast food, with or without drive-thru.
      Restaurant, general.
      Retail, general.
      Supporting daycare, general, in conjunction with a preferredanother permitted use
      defined above.
      Supporting preschool, general, in conjunction with a preferred another permitted
      use defined above.
      Trade/vocational school.
      Transportation service.
      Vehicle rental.
      Vehicle repair, general, in conjunction with a preferredanother permitted use
      defined above.
      Vehicle sale.
      Veterinary service, but only when the use does not include grooming or boarding
      services.
      Warehouse, self-service storage, but only in conjunction with a preferredanother
      permitted use defined above.
      Wholesale and warehousing, limited.
      Wholesale and warehousing, general.
      Wireless telecommunications facility.
      (Ord. 1016, 6-5-2012; amd. Ord. 1085, 3-4-2014; Ord. 1396, 6-18-2019; Ord. 1418, 1-
      21-2020)

9-18G-040: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses are allowed in the LPCSD by conditional use permit only:
Auto, truck, RV and equipment storage.
Car wash.
Commercial vehicle and equipment repair, when use is not in conjunction with a preferred
permitted use defined above.
Daycare, general, not in conjunction with a preferred permitted use defined above.
Funeral home.
Garage, public.
Gasoline service station, when not an ancillary use for a convenience store.
Manufacturing, general, when the use is not in conjunction with a preferred permitted use
defined above.
Vehicle repair, general, when the use is not in conjunction with a preferred permitted use
defined above.
Veterinary service that includes grooming and boarding services.
(Ord. 1016, 6-5-2012; amd. Ord. 1085, 3-4-2014)

9-18G-050: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
A.    Minimum Number Of Required Architectural Design Elements For New
      Development Requests: The general architectural design elements and themes for
      the new retail, office and industrial development phases of the LPCSD are attached
      to this article for reference. Specifically, section 9-18G-090, exhibits B1, B2 and B3 of
      this article portray the preferred design elements for new retail and new office
      development uses. Section 9-18G-090, exhibits C1, C2, C3 and C4 of this article
      portray the preferred design elements for new industrial development uses. Each
      new retail, office or industrial development request shall incorporate at least five (5)
      distinct design elements defined for that proposed use as presented in these
      exhibits.
      1.      Retail/Office Phase:
              a.       Design elements similar to the previously constructed retail buildings
                       shall be used to add interest on newly constructed buildings.
              b.       Where an elevation of a building faces 12300 South, a minimum of ten
                       percent (10%) of the wall facing 12300 South shall be made up of or
                       covered with an element of interest. Examples of elements of interest
                       include, but are not limited to: concrete masonry units, ledge stone,
                       rock, brick, brick veneer, architectural grade concrete, or other unique
                       elements needed to conform to a user's specifically established
                       architectural design standards in other markets.
              c.       Preferred design elements for retail include:
                       (1)    Decorative EIFS detail.
                       (2)    EIFS or metal cornice trim.
                       (3)    Powder coated painted steel canopy.
                       (4)    Offset in plane at main entry.
                       (5)    Offset height at main entry.
                       (6)    Decorative score joint or imbeds in exposed exterior concrete.
            (7)    Fabric or metal awning.
            (8)    Raised exterior planter.
            (9)    Decorative art elements.
            (10)   Architectural grade exposed exterior concrete.
            (11)   Over fifty percent (50%) glass wall facing at least one (1) street,
                   measured horizontally.
            (12)   Brick veneer.
            (13)   Architectural grade exterior wall mounted light fixtures at main
                   entries.
            (14)   Exterior siding, rain screen, cladding.
            (15)   Shipping container elements or finishes to appear as shipping
                   containers.
     d.     Preferred design elements for office include:
            (1)    Architectural metal paneling.
            (2)    Architectural cement paneling.
            (3)    Ceramic tile cladding or architectural concrete finish.
            (4)    Decorative canopy at lobby entry.
            (5)    Architectural grade exterior wall mounted light fixture.
            (6)    Architectural concrete.
            (7)    Multi-story glass.
            (8)    Masonry or brick veneer.
            (9)    Decorative metal trim.
            (10)   EIFS field.
            (11)   Exterior siding, rain screen, cladding.
            (12)   Shipping container elements or finishes to appear as shipping
                   containers.
2.   Industrial Phase:
     a.     Design elements shall be used to add interest on the front and side of
            buildings with particular sensitivity to maintaining efficient business
            operations. The design themes may also accommodate other unique
            elements needed to conform to a user's specifically established
            architectural design standards in other markets.
     b.     Where an elevation of a building faces a major road but has no
            entrance onto such road, a minimum of five percent (5%) calculated
            on linear footage of the building wall shall be glass or other
            architectural elements of interest.
     c.     Maximum lot coverage shall be fifty percent (50%).
     d.     The minimum front setback shall be twenty feet (20') measured from
            back of street curb.
     e.     For every one thousand (1,000) square feet of industrial space, there
            shall be a minimum of 1.5 parking spaces.
     fe.    No building shall be taller than sixty feet (60'), measured from the
            finished grade. Finished grade calculations and elevations shall not
      be calculated from any applicable truck dock well elevations that
      penetrate deeper than the typical finished grades. Instead, elevations
      shall be calculated from the remaining finished grade of the site, e.g.,
      a car parking stall elevation.
gf.   All mechanical equipment shall be screened from view, either by
      enclosure or parapet wall.
hg.   Dumpsters shall be screened from view by concrete screen walls
      incorporated within the truck courts or enclosed within a concrete or
      masonry enclosure designed to be compatible with the overall project
      architecture.
ih.   Outside storage, where allowed, shall be located no closer than one
      hundred fifty feet (150') from any street (with the exception of the
      Shasta building located at 264 West which shall be no closer than
      eight feet (18') from curb back of street) and shall be contained within
      a secured minimum eight foot (8') vinyl coated chainlink fence with
      vinyl slats or masonry, metal, or concrete wall, designed to visually
      occlude the stored items from the street.
i.    Industrial Preferred Design Elements:
      (1)    Offset in Primary Wall Height.
      (2)    Offset in Primary Wall Plane.
      (3)    EIFS Trim.
      (4)    Aluminum Storefront Window System.
      (5)    Masonry Veneer.
      (6)    Decorative Canopy.
      (7)    Spandrel or Frosted Glass in Aluminum Storefront System
             Above Finished Ceiling Elevation.
      (8)    Powder Coat Painted Steel Canopy at Primary Building
             Entrance.
      (9)    Pre Finished Metal Fascia Trim on Top of Wall.
      (10)   Recessed Header Reveal Painted Contrasting Color.
      (11)   Architectural Grade Exterior Wall Mounted Light Fixture at
             Primary Building Entrance.
      (12)   Textured Concrete Tilt Panel Using Form Liner.
      (13)   Shipping container elements or finishes to appear as shipping
             containers.
      (14)   Decorative Reveal at Head of Aluminum Storefront Windows
             Painted Contrasting Color.
      (15)   Decorative Reveal at Top of Wall Panel Painted Contrasting
             Color.
      (16)   Decorative Reveals Formed in Concrete Tilt Panel.
      (17)   Glass Elements Above Finished Ceiling Height.
                     (18)    Insulated Glass in Aluminum Store Front System.
                     (19)    Concrete Tilt Panel.
                     (20)    Standing Seam Metal Roofing at Primary Building Entrance.
                     (21)    Overbuilt Element at Entry.
                     (22)    Hollow Metal Door and Frame Painted to Match Building
                             Elevation.

B.     Landscape Standards: The LPCSD shall be landscaped as follows:
       14.   Outdoor Art: Landscaping may include outdoor art or sculptures that are
             culturally enriching and socially acceptable. It is the intent that the artwork
             add to the theme and esthetic experience of the Lone Peak Business Park
             and not as propaganda or for marketing. All outdoor art shall be of a type
             and in a location that will not be a distraction or impede the view of those
             accessing the rights-of-way. All outdoor art shall not exceed fifty feet (50’) in
             height. (Ord. 1016, 6-5-2012; amd. Ord. 1396, 6-18-2019; Ord. 1426, 4-7-
             2020)

9-18G-080: SIGNAGE:
B.    Pylon Signs: A maximum of seven (7) pylon signs may be erected. One pylon sign
      will be located at the intersection of 12300 South 265 West, one at the future
      intersection of 12200 South Lone Peak Parkway, and one at the intersection of
      approximately 12000 South Lone Peak Parkway as conceptually outlined in section
      9-18G-090, exhibit D B of this article. The remaining two (2) pylon signs shall also
      adhere to the master signage guidelines of the LPCSD and must be approved by the
      Zoning Administrator for all appropriate safety issues. These pylon signs shall be a
      maximum of thirty feet (30') tall (in addition to the three feet (3') base) and no wider
      than ten feet (10') and shall identify the business park as well as up to ten (10) major
      tenants located within the park. Each pylon sign may be multi-tenant signs
      designed to be architecturally compatible with the LPCSD design themes as depicted
      in section 9-18G-090, exhibits D1 and D2 of this article.
C.    Monument Signs: Single or multi-tenant monument signage shall be allowed in the
      following locations:
      6.      Each subdivided lot within the LPCSD shall be allowed a monument sign on
              each street frontage. The height of each monument sign shall not exceed
              twelve feet (12') and the overall sign area shall not exceed sixty four (64)
              square feet, as described in section 9-18G-090, exhibit E of this article.
              Monument signs taller than thirty inches (30”) shall not be in the public-right-
              of-way or in the clear view triangles described in Section 9-27-080 of this
              code.
D.    Previously Constructed Or Existing Signage: All previously constructed or existing
      multi-tenant monument signage within the LPCSD shall be allowed a maximum of
      thirty (30) square feet of tenant advertising area and excludes the sign's
     architectural supports and design elements as described in section 9-18G-090,
     exhibit D1 of this article.
F.   Additional Directional/Informational Signage:
     1.     Additional tenant directional/informational signage may be installed to direct
            traffic, customers and truck drivers to individual tenant locations within the
            LPCSD. The maximum area of business name or logo on
            directional/informational signage shall be one square foot. The maximum
            area of the directional/informational signs shall be ten (10) square feet.
            Cabinet and temporary A-frames signs shall be permitted.
     2.     All pylon signs and monument signs shall be generally consistent with
            section 9-18G-090, exhibits D, D1 and D2 of this article. All pylon signs must
            also be approved by the Zoning Administrator to ensure clearance of sight
            distance requirements and compliance with these regulations. Any tenant of
            the LPCSD may locate on any pylon or pole sign within the LPCSD
            boundaries.
G.   Wall Mounted Sign Design Guidelines For Multi-Tenant, Single Owner or Single
     Occupant Buildings: Wall mounted signage shall be allowed usually above the main
     entry of each tenant space and shall incorporate the following design criteria:
     1.     The letters shall be individually cut from up to three inch (3") plastic or
            aluminum and/or painted directly on the exterior of the building. Individual
            pan channel letters mounted on a raceway shall be permitted.
     2.     Blade signs (projecting signs mounted on a building façade and protruding
            out perpendicular to the building face) shall be allowed at or near any
            feature entry of a building. Blade signs must:
            (a)    be at least eight feet (8’) above ground level at the lowest point,
            (b)    protrude no further than four feet (4’) from the face of the building,
                   and
            (c)    not exceed twenty-four (24) square feet in total area.
     3.     Signage will be allowed on all sides of the building, including but not limited
            to the name and/or logo of the owner of the building.
     4.     Where a tenant or building occupant has more than one entry, multiple signs
            will be allowed to define different divisions of the company and employee
            entries.
     2.     Signage will be allowed on all sides of the building that are visible from a
            street or drive.
     3.     Where a tenant or building occupant has more than one entry, multiple signs
            will be allowed to define different divisions of the company and employee
            entries.
     45.    Wall signs may be installed by individual businesses based on two (2) square
            feet per linear foot of building, or in the case of a multi-tenant building, two
            (2) square feet per linear feet of leased premises.
H.     Undeveloped Lot Signage: Future development lots shall also be allowed one lot
       identification sign. The lot identification sign shall be no taller than three feet (3')
       and no wider than two feet (2'). The lot identification sign shall include the Lone
       Peak Business Park logo and the individual lot number as portrayed in section 9-
       18G-090, exhibit D1 of this article.
J.     Pole Signage: One pole sign will be located in the vicinity of 12300 South and 222
       West, as conceptually outlined in section 9-18G-090, exhibit D2 B of this article. This
       pole sign will be a maximum of forty feet (40') tall and no wider than ten feet (10')
       and shall identify up to two (2) tenants located within the park.
N.     L Shaped Signs: L shaped signs will be allowed on street frontage to identify the
       business park. The L shaped signs shall not exceed twenty five feet (25’) in height
       from the top of the pedestal base. L shaped signs will be constructed similarly to
       the archway sign in section M (exhibit D), with a maximum horizontal member of 6’-
       0”.
O      Electronic Message Centers: The signs allowed above may incorporate electronic
       message centers, providing the electronic messages centers comply with Draper
       City Code section 9-26-090(D)
       (Ord. 1210, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 1396, 6-18-2019; Ord. 1426, 4-7-2020)

9-18G-085: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
Approval of this Commercial Special District text and accompanying exhibits constitutes
conceptual site plan approval of the office, industrial, commercial and retail components in
accordance with City ordinances. Site plans for development in the LPCSD may be
approved by the Draper City Zoning Administrator and may be forwarded to the Planning
Commission by the Zoning Administrator subject to the findings in section 9-5-090(H) of
this title. Except as otherwise provided herein, permits shall be processed in accordance
with the Draper City requirements, ordinances and procedures. All other development
standards set forth in Draper City Code that are not modified herein, shall apply, including
chapters 20, 22, 23, 25, and 32 of this title 9 and titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16 and 18.
Approval of this Commercial Special District text and accompanying exhibits constitutes
conceptual site plan approval of the office, industrial, commercial and retail components in
accordance with City ordinances. Site plans for development in the LPCSD may be
approved by the Draper City Zoning Administrator. Except as otherwise provided herein,
permits shall be processed in accordance with the Draper City requirements, ordinances
and procedures. (Ord. 1396, 6-18-2019; amd. Ord. 1426, 4-7-2020)

9-18G-090: EXHIBITS:
EXHIBIT A
EXHIBIT B
EXHIBIT C
EXHIBIT D
EXHIBIT E
EXHIBIT A
EXHIBIT A-1
  EXHIBIT B1
  LONE PEAK COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICT
  DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURAL THEMES
New development phases must incorporate at least seven separate design elements from
the preferred design elements as follows:
Retail Preferred Design Elements:
1. Decorative EIFS Detail
2. EIFS Cornice Trim
3. EIFS Field in Earth tone Color
4. Powder Coat Painted Steel Canopy
5. Offset in Plane at Main Entry
6. Brick Veneer in Earth tone Color
7. Fabric Awning
8. Architectural Grade Exterior Wall Mounted Light Fixture at Main Entries
9. Overbuilt Element at Entry
10. Offset Height at Main Entry
Office Preferred Design Elements:
1. Architectural Metal Paneling
2. Ceramic Tile Cladding in Earth tone Color or Architectural Concrete Finish
3. Decorative Canopy at Lobby Entry
4. Architectural Grade Exterior Wall Mounted Light Fixture
5. Architectural Concrete
6. Multi-Story Glass
7. Masonry Veneer in Earth tone Color
8. Decorative Metal Trim
9. EIFS Field in Earth tone Color
Conceptual illustrations of each of the preferred design elements are attached as Exhibits
B2 and B3.
(Ord. 1016, 6-5-2012)
  EXHIBIT B2
(Ord. 1396, 6-18-2019)
  EXHIBIT B3




  EXHIBIT C1
 LONE PEAK COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICT
 DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURAL THEMES
 INDUSTRIAL PHASES
New development phases must incorporate at least seven separate design elements form
the following preferred design elements:
Industrial Preferred Design Elements (Rear Loaded Buildings) Illustrated on Exhibit C2:
  1. Offset in Primary Wall Height
  2. Offset in Primary Wall Plane
  3. Reveal at Top of Wall Painted Contrasting Color
  4. Decorative Reveals
  5. Color Integrated Concrete Tilt Panel or Concrete Tilt Panel Painted Using Earth tone
Color Palette
  6. EIFS Trim
  7. Aluminum Storefront Window System
  8. Masonry Veneer in Earth tone Color
  9. Decorative Canopy at Primary Building Entrance
  10. Spandrel or Frosted Glass in Aluminum Storefront System Above Finished Ceiling
Elevation
  11. Powder Coat Painted Steel Canopy at Primary Building Entrance
  12. Pre Finished Metal Fascia Trim on Top of Wall
  13. Recessed Header Reveal Painted Contrasting Color
  14. Architectural Grade Exterior Wall Mounted Light Fixture at Primary Building Entrance
  15. Textured Concrete Tilt Panel Using Form Liner Painted Earth tone Palette
Industrial Preferred Design Elements (Front Loaded or Cross Dock Buildings) Illustrated on
Exhibit C3:
  1. Decorative Reveal at Head of Aluminum Storefront Windows Painted Contrasting
Color
  2. Decorative Reveal at Top of Wall Panel Painted Contrasting Color
  3. Decorative Reveals Formed in Concrete Tilt Panel
  4. Glass Elements Above Finished Ceiling Height
  5. Offset in Primary Wall Plane
  6. Insulated Glass in Aluminum Store Front System With Painted Kynar Finish
  7. Decorative Canopy at Primary Building Entrance
  8. Architectural Grade Exterior Wall Mounted Light Fixture at Primary Building Entrance
  9. Concrete Tilt Panel Using Multiple Earth tone Colors
Side Elevations - Industrial Building Preferred Industrial Design Elements Illustrated on
Exhibit C4:
  1. Standing Seam Metal Roofing at Primary Building Entrance
  2. Overbuilt Element at Entry
  3. Recessed Reveal at Top of Wall Painted Contrasting Color
  4. Hollow Metal Door and Frame Painted to Match Building Elevation
  5. Reveals Cast in Concrete Tilt Panel
  6. Insulated Glass in Aluminum Storefront System
  7. Concrete Tilt Panel Using Multiple Earth tone Colors
  8. Decorative Canopy
  EXHIBIT C2
EXHIBIT C3
EXHIBIT C4
(Ord. 1016, 6-5-2012)
  EXHIBIT D
(Ord. 1396, 6-18-2019)
  EXHIBIT D1
(Ord. 1016, 6-5-2012)
  EXHIBIT D2
(Ord. 1396, 6-18-2019)
  EXHIBIT E
(Ord. 1210, 6-7-2016)
