                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, Utah 84020



                                         STAFF REPORT
                                         January 4, 2022

To:                  Draper City Planning Commission
                     Business Date: January 13, 2022

From:                Development Review Committee

Prepared By:         Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                     Planning Division
                     Community Development Department
                     (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Mountain Point Quilting – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-176-2021
        Applicants:       Jeffrey and Cindy Stokes
        Project Location: Approximately 773 Rocky Mouth Lane
        Current Zoning: RM (Multi-family Residential) Zone and South Mountain
                          Agreement
        Acreage:          Approximately 0.29 acres (approximately 12,632.4 square feet)
        Request:          Approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for the
                          purpose of a home based business. The applicant is looking to
                          have a home business as a quilter.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a home occupation conditional use permit for
approximately 0.29 acres located on the north side of Rocky Mouth Lane, at approximately
773 Rocky Mouth Lane (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned RM. The applicant is
requesting that a home occupation conditional use permit be approved to allow for a
home business as a quilter which is defined as a cottage business.




Mountain Point Quilting                                            App. # USE-176-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit         1
The home is part of the South Mountain Subdivision Phase 2D subdivision and the home
was built in 1999. As it is part of the South Mountain area, the property and zoning is
subject to the 1999 Draper City Municipal Code (1999 DCMC).



ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RM zoning classification, (Exhibit D). According to 1999
DCMC Section 9-4-030 the purpose of the RM zone is to “provide areas for low-to-medium
residential density’ with the opportunity for varied housing styles and character, providing
for a maximum density of up to twelve (12) units per acre for medium to high density
residential unit projects subject to conditional-use permit procedures and conditions for
this type of use and based on minimum development guidelines adopted by the City.” The
property is surrounded by the RM zone to the west, east and south; OS (Open Space) to the
north.



Mountain Point Quilting                                              App. # USE-176-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit       2
Home Occupation. The applicant will be doing sewing and longarm quilting services for
customers. The owners will be the only employees and will work out of a small area of the
basement of the home. Customers will not be coming to the home for merchandise.
Customers who are not local will be sending their items to be sewn to one of the
applicant’s place of business in Holladay. Local customers will drop off and pick up their
order at guild or group meetings in the northern Utah.

1999 DCMC Section 9-4-140                Home Occupations.

(a)     Notwithstanding other sections of this Title, a home occupation shall be
        considered a permitted use in any residential, multiple family and agriculture zone
        if the proposed use meets all of the following conditions:

        1.       The home occupation is a home office, beauty salon, pre-school or day care
                 business, as regulated by the State of Utah.
                 The home occupation as a home quilting business will be processed as a
                 conditional use permit.

        2.       The business is owned and operated by the resident of the home.
                 The applicants and will be the only employees and are both the home and
                 business owner.

        3.       No employees, other than residents of the home, utilize the facility.
                 There will be no employees but the applicants.

        4.       For beauty salon, pre-school or day care business, the hours of operation
                 do not begin before 7 a.m. or extend beyond 8 p.m.
                 Not applicable as this is a business as a home quilting business.

        5.       A business license is obtained from, and continually maintained with the City.
                 The applicant will comply with this section requirement.

        6.       All facilities are inspected by the Fire Department prior to initial use and
                 meet Fire Department standards at all times.
                 The applicant will comply with any and all inspections.

        7.       All drop-off or customer parking is accommodated on paved portions of the
                 property.
                 There are no customers coming to the home as the applicant will be utilizing
                 their personal vehicle for product delivery.

        Information regarding the proposed use will be provided to the Neighborhood
        Association for the area in which the proposed use is to be located. The


Mountain Point Quilting                                                    App. # USE-176-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit            3
        Neighborhood Association will have fourteen (14) days from the date of mailing to
        respond to the Zoning Administrator with comments regarding the proposed use.
        The Zoning Administrator will then review the response and determine if the
        proposed use is to be permitted, permitted with additional conditions, or will
        require a conditional use permit.
        The City does not have Neighborhood Associations anymore. The City used to have
        neighborhood organizations that worked like recommending neighborhood councils
        to the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, and City Council.

        (b)      Any home occupation which does not meet the provisions outlined above
                 shall be processed as a Conditional Use in accordance with Section 9-2-104
                 of this Title.
                 The applicant has applied for a conditional use permit.

The single family home on the property is approximately 3,101 square feet and will be
utilizing approximately 125 square feet for the home occupation which equals
approximately 4% of the home square footage. The business will be using most of the 125
square feet for the sewing of materials. A small storage area will be utilized.

Criteria For Approval.
The 1999 DCMC Section 9-2-104(I) outlines the standards to which the Planning
Commission should consider to determine whether a conditional use permit application
should be approved, denied, or approved with conditions:

(1)     Factors. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered by the Planning
        Commission in determining whether a conditional use permit application should be
        approved, denied, or approved with conditions.

        1.       The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the City General Plan and Zoning Ordinances.

        2.       The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use.

        3.       The development or lack of development adjacent to the proposed site and
                 the harmony of the proposed use with the existing uses in the
                 neighborhood.

        4.       Whether or not the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or
                 existing development within the vicinity.

        5.       The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area.



Mountain Point Quilting                                                  App. # USE-176-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit           4
        6.       The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area.

        7.       Whether or not the proposed use or facility is necessary or desirable to the
                 City.

        8.       The number of other similar conditional uses in the area and the public need
                 for the proposed conditional use.

        9.       The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer,
                 and other utilities, for the proposed site and surrounding area.

        10.      The safeguards proposed or provided to insure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation.

        11.      The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 omissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use.

        12.      The safeguards provided or proposed to minimize other adverse effects from
                 the proposed facility or use on persons or property in the area.

        13.      The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the City, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.

        14.      The appropriateness and compatibility of the proposed use with the use
                 tables set forth in this Title for the zone in which the property is located.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the home occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the home occupation conditional use
permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the home occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.



Mountain Point Quilting                                                   App. # USE-176-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit            5
Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the home
occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:
1.      All requirements of the Draper City Fire Department, Building Division, and Business
        License Division shall be satisfied throughout the operation of the home occupation
        on the property.
2.      The home occupation is required to maintain approval and adequate licensure from
        any and all necessary agencies.

The findings for approval as are follows:
1.     Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
       anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:
1.     Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
       alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the home occupation conditional
use permit, as requested by Jeffery and Cindy Stokes, application USE-176-2021, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 4, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the home occupation
conditional use permit, as requested by Jeffery and Cindy Stokes, application USE-176-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January
4, 2022, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1.      List any additional findings and conditions . . .




Mountain Point Quilting                                               App. # USE-176-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit            6
Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the home occupation conditional use
permit, as requested by Jeffery and Cindy Stokes, application USE-176-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 4, 2022.




Mountain Point Quilting                                            App. # USE-176-2021
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit      7
               DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.


                                                                                                Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                                                                                                DN: C=US,
                   Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield
                                                                                                E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov,
 Brien Maxfield
                   DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City, ou=PW -
                   Engineering,
                   email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov, c=US
                                                                          Keith Collier         O=Draper City, OU=Building
                                                                                                Official, CN=Keith Collier
                   Date: 2022.01.06 14:47:51 -07'00'
                                                                                                Date: 2022.01.06 11:19:55-07'00'

Draper City Public Works Division                                         Draper City Building Division

                                                                                                Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                DN: C=US,
                                                                                                E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                   Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                                                                          Jennifer Jastremsky
Don Buckley        DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us, O="Draper City
                   Fire ", OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                   Date: 2022.01.06 14:24:52-07'00'
                                                                                                O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City,
                                                                                                CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                Date: 2022.01.06 14:13:28-07'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                               Draper City Planning Division


                                                                                            Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                                                                          Mike Barker       Date: 2022.01.06 13:52:45
                                                                                            -07'00'


                                                                          Draper City Legal Counsel
                                    EXHIBIT A
                               DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
      EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT’S NARRATIVE
Overview of Proposed use: 773 Rocky Mouth Ln, Draper, Utah 84020

This home is owned by Jeffery & Cindy Stokes. Jeffery & Cindy are partners in Mountain Point Quilting
LLC., the home business being a secondary use of their home. The only residences of the home are
Jeffery & Cindy Stokes. They are also the only employees of Mountain Point Quilting, LLC.

Mountain Point Quilting provides sewing & longarm quilting services for customers. Only the actual
sewing & quilting will happen in the home. No customers will be coming & going from the home.
Customers will ship quilt tops & backing fabric to a business address in Holladay, Utah (Cindy’s day job
address). Local customers will be supplying quilt tops & backing fabric at guild or group meetings in
northern Utah.

The sewing & quilting will be performed in a small section of our basement. This process will not be
evident from the outside of the home.
