                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                                  April 7. 2022

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: April 14, 2022

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Planning Manager/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov

Re:     Jarvie Estates Phase 2– Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement
        Request
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-67-2022 and DA-68-2022
        Applicant:        Andy Flamm
        Project Location: 498 East 13800 South
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum)
                          Zone
        Acreage:          1.14 Acres (Approximately 49,658 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment from the RA1
                          zone to the RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot
                          minimum) zone and a Development Agreement to waive the
                          minimum private lane width standard for Jarvie Lane.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment and Development
Agreement for approximately 1.14 acres located at approximately 498 East 13800 South
(Exhibit C). The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a Zoning
Map Amendment be approved from the RA1 zone to the RA2 zone and that a Development
Agreement be approved to waive private street width standards.

The subject property is currently vacant. The property used to house a cabin, but the cabin
burned down a couple years ago. The property is accessed from an unimproved private
lane servicing four parcels. The private lane is not paved and is a dirt road. There are
currently two homes that access the lane. The lane cannot be improved without the


Jarvie Estates Phase 2 Zoning Map«Project_Name»                     App. # TEXTMAP-67-2022, DA-
68-2022
Amendment and Development Agreement Request            1
consent of the other lane holders impacting the development potential of the subject
property.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Low/Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit D). This
category is characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA1 zoning classification, supporting approximately
one dwelling unit per acre (Exhibit E). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1 zone is to “foster low density development with little
impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
City’s semi-rural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. This zone is intended to promote


Jarvie Estates Phase 2 Zoning Map«Project_Name»                          App. # TEXTMAP-67-2022, DA-
68-2022
Amendment and Development Agreement Request       2
a combination of retail and service facilities which, in character and scale, meet day to day
needs of nearby residents.” The property abuts the RA1 zone on the north and the RA2 zone
on the east, west, and south.

Proposed Zoning Map Amendment. The applicant is proposing the RA2 zone. The RA2 zone
has the same purpose statement as the RA1 zone under DCMC Section 9-8-020. It is
considered a large lot zone and includes animal rights. The RA2 zone is consistent with the
surrounding neighborhood. If rezoned to RA2, the property could be subdivided into two
lots.

Development Agreement. The applicant is proposing a development agreement for the
property (Exhibit F). The main purpose of the agreement is to waive the private street width
standards. While the property has been historically accessed from a private dirt lane on the
west of the property, it abuts a newly constructed improved private lane on the east, Jarvie
Lane. If the applicant is able to secure an easement from the owner, the applicant would
like to utilize Jarvie Lane for access to the subject property, and forgo its current access on
the western private dirt lane.

The City updated their private street width standards in July 2021. Jarvie Estates was
developed under the previous code and does not conform to current code standards.
DCMC Section 9-27-150(B) requires private roads that serve 6-10 lots to contain 31-feet of
width:




Jarvie Estates currently has 7 lots on it and the roadway is 30-feet wide, including 28-feet of
drivable surface:




Jarvie Estates Phase 2 Zoning Map«Project_Name»                       App. # TEXTMAP-67-2022, DA-
68-2022
Amendment and Development Agreement Request       3
The proposed development would add an additional two lots onto Jarvie Lane, and would
waive the requirement that the lane to be widened to 31-feet.



Criteria For Approval.

Zoning Map Amendment
A Text and Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in
Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

         1. Map Amendments:
             a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                of the city's general plan;
             b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
                existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
             c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
                applicable overlay zone;
             d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
                property; and
             e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
                including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
                fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
                wastewater and refuse collection.



Jarvie Estates Phase 2 Zoning Map«Project_Name»                           App. # TEXTMAP-67-2022, DA-
68-2022
Amendment and Development Agreement Request       4
Development Agreements
DCMC does not contain criteria for review and potential approval of a Development
Agreement. It does, however; contain a list of items that are required as part of an
Agreement and limitations to a Development Agreement, as found in DCMC Section 9-5-
200(C) and (D). This section depicts the required materials for such requests as:

        C.    Procedure: All development agreements, upon proper execution, shall be recorded
              with the respective County Recorder's Office, shall run with the land, and shall be
              binding on all successors in the ownership of the affected property. A development
              agreement shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
               1. A legal description of the land subject to the development agreement.
               2. The restrictions or conditions to be attached to the property including
                   development standards and the provision of public facilities.
               3. The configuration of the project as shown on a project master plan.
               4. A statement of the benefits and value the development agreement will have
                   for the City as a whole, including, but not limited to, assurances of design
                   standards, dedication and improvement of open space, parks, trails,
                   amenities, or infrastructure such as public rights-of-way or utilities.
               5. The time frames for performance by the parties.
               6. A description of the various City approvals required before the
                   commencement of construction and other procedures that will be required
                   after approval of the development agreement.
               7. Provisions for enforcement of the terms and conditions of the development
                   agreement.
               8. Provisions for making amendments to the development agreement.
               9. The time limitation of the agreement.
               10. Such other terms as may be proposed and agreed to between the City and
                   developer or subdivider.
        D. Limitations:
               1. A development agreement under this section may not:
                   a. Limit the City’s authority in the future to:
                       i. Enact a land use regulation; or
                       ii. Take any action allowed under Utah Code Annotated Section 10-8-84,
                           as amended;
                   b. Require the City to change the zoning designation of an area of land
                       within the City in the future; or
                   c. Contain a term that conflicts with, or is different from, a standard set forth
                       in an existing land use regulation that governs the area subject to the
                       development agreement, unless the city council approves the development
                       agreement in accordance with the same procedures for enacting a land
                       use regulation under Utah Code Annotated Section 10-9a-502, including a
                       review and recommendation from the planning commission and a public
                       hearing.


Jarvie Estates Phase 2 Zoning Map«Project_Name»                           App. # TEXTMAP-67-2022, DA-
68-2022
Amendment and Development Agreement Request       5
                 2.  The City may not require a development agreement as the only option for
                    developing land within the City.
                 3. To the extent that a development agreement does not specifically address a
                    matter or concern related to land use or development, the matter or concern
                    is governed by;
                    a. Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-530, as amended; and
                    b. Applicable land use regulations of this Title.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement submission. Comments from
this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Map Amendment and
Development Agreement submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Zoning
Map Amendment and Development Agreement submission. Comments from this division,
if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Zoning Map
Amendment and Development Agreement submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:


Jarvie Estates Phase 2 Zoning Map«Project_Name»                         App. # TEXTMAP-67-2022, DA-
68-2022
Amendment and Development Agreement Request       6
        1.       The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                 the city's general plan.
        2.       The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
                 existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
        3.       The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
                 overlay zone.
        4.       The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
        5.       There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
                 property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
                 facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
                 water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
        6.       The Development Agreement complies with DCMC Sections 9-5-200(C) and
                 (D).

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.       The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                 policies of the city's general plan.
        2.       The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
                 existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
        3.       The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any
                 applicable overlay zone.
        4.       The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
        5.       There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
                 property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
                 facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
                 water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
        6.       The Development Agreement does not comply with DCMC Sections 9-5-
                 200(C) and (D).



MODEL MOTIONS

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Andy Flamm for Jarvie
Estates Phase 2, application TEXTMAP-67-2022, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 7, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Andy Flamm for Jarvie
Estates Phase 2, application TEXTMAP-67-2022, based on the findings and subject to the


Jarvie Estates Phase 2 Zoning Map«Project_Name»                         App. # TEXTMAP-67-2022, DA-
68-2022
Amendment and Development Agreement Request       7
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 7, 2022 and as modified by the findings and
conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Andy Flamm for Jarvie Estates
Phase 2, application TEXTMAP-67-2022, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report
dated April 7, 2022.

Development Agreement
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by Andy Flamm for Jarvie
Estates Phase 2, application DA-68-2022, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 7, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by Andy Flamm for Jarvie
Estates Phase 2, application DA-68-2022, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 7, 2022 and as modified by the findings and
conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by Andy Flamm for Jarvie Estates
Phase 2, application DA-68-2022, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated April
7, 2022.




Jarvie Estates Phase 2 Zoning Map«Project_Name»                      App. # TEXTMAP-67-2022, DA-
68-2022
Amendment and Development Agreement Request       8
                   DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                                                                                                  Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                  DN: C=US,
                                                                                                  E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                                                                            Jennifer Jastremsky   O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City,

__________________________________                                         __________________________________
                                                                                                  CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                  Date: 2022.04.07 14:39:50-06'00'


Draper City Public Works Department                                        Draper City Planning Division



                                                                            Mike Barker
                      Digitally signed by Don Buckley                                             Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                      DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us, O=Draper
                                                                                                  Date: 2022.04.07 14:44:57
Don Buckley
__________________________________
                      City Fire Department, OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don
                      Buckley
                      Date: 2022.04.07 16:48:10-06'00'                     __________________________________
                                                                                                  -06'00'

Draper City Fire Department                                                Draper City Legal Counsel

                      Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                      DN: C=US,

Keith Collier         E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov,
                      O=Draper City, OU=Building Official,

__________________________________
                      CN=Keith Collier
                      Date: 2022.04.08 06:40:58-06'00'


Draper City Building Division




Jarvie Estates Phase 2 Zoning Map«Project_Name»                                                   App. # TEXTMAP-67-2022, DA-
68-2022
Amendment and Development Agreement Request                            9
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

   1. The existing Jarvie Lane has 28-feet in width of drivable surface. The minimum width
      of drivable surface required by the Fire Department is 26-feet.
   2. The proposal would allow for development of property that would not otherwise be
      buildable due to constraints of its existing access.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including but not
      limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm
      water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse collection;

       Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities intended
       to serve this property.

           a. The increase in density from one residential unit per acre zoning to two
              residential units per acre does not constitute a significant traffic increase to
              and from the subject area. One single family residential structure constitutes
              up to nine daily trips and two peak hour trips, based on industry standard
              vehicle trip tables. With the increase in density, relative to the capacity of the
              surrounding public streets, eighteen daily trips and four peak hour trips will
              not increase traffic congestion. Any increase in traffic would be limited to
              Beachwood Drive and the network of local streets feeding to 13800 South, a
              major collector street.

           b. As shown from the concept plan, connectivity with the subject parcel to a public
              right-of-way is on a private street within the adjacent private subdivision Jarvie
              Estates. This private road access Beachwood Drive, a public local residential street.
              Access locations will be required to meet Draper City Standards as outlined in our
              Master Transportation Plan.

           c. There are private existing storm drainage facilities fronting the site. Any future site
              drainage will be required to be addressed with any subdivision or site plan
              application, and shall comply with the provisions of the development
              requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code. This may require the
              modification of existing private utilities of an existing subdivision, Jarvie Estates.
           d. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any
              subdivision application will require a commitment to serve from the Sewer District
              that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

           e. Drinking water is provided by WaterPro. Any future subdivision application will
              require a commitment to serve from WaterPro that facilities are adequate to
              provide service for the any change of uses.

   2. The proposal of adding two lots to an existing seven-lot subdivision may require the
      upsizing of storm drainage facilities, especially the detention basin, but could impact other
      infrastructure. The addition of the two lots will require evaluating the existing subdivision
      improvements and verifying storm drainage and other utilities still meet city
      requirements.

       Otherwise, the proposed development will be required to meet all of the city’s standards
       and requirements, minus access to the private street, within the area of the two proposed
       lots. The development is required to follow low-impact development standards.

Fire Division Review.

   1. Fire department access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
      twenty-six (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13)
      feet six (6) inches shall be required. The road must be designed and maintained to
      support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The surface shall be able to
      provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall have an inside turning radius
      of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be
      checked prior to building permits being issued.

       D103.6.1 roads 20 to 26 feet in width. Fire lane signs as specified in section d103.6
       shall be posted on both sides of fire apparatus access roads that are 20 to 26 feet
       wide (6096to 7925 mm).

              this section requires that parking be prohibited on both sides of narrower
               fire apparatus access roads. Twenty feet (6096 mm) is the appropriate width
               needed for two average-size fire trucks to pass one another. If that width is
               reduced by parking even on one side, it will be potentially difficult for a fire
               department to undertake emergency operations in that area.



       D103.6.2 roads more than 26 feet in width. Fire lane signs as specified in section
       d103.6 shall be posted on one side of fire apparatus access roads more than 26 feet
       wide (7925 mm) and less than 32 feet wide (9754 mm).

              because this width is more than sufficient for maneuvering at least two fire
          department vehicles by one another, parking would be allowed on one side.

2. D103.6 signs. Where required by the fire code official, fire apparatus access roads
   shall be marked with permanent no parking—fire lane signs complying with figure
   d103.6. Signs shall have a minimum dimension of 12 inches (305mm) wide by 18
   inches (457mm) high and have red letters on a white reflective background. Signs
   shall be, posted on one or both sides of the fire apparatus road as required by
   section d103.6.1 or d103.6.2. No parking fire lane signs shall be placed every 250
   feet.




3. Visible addressing required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address
   numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These
   numbers shall contrast with their background.
                                      EXHIBIT B
                                  LEGAL DESCRIPTION

PARCEL 1: 34-06-426-004-0000

Beginning at a point 25.0 feet East and 596.47 feet South of the Northwest Corner of the
Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 6, Township 4 South, Range 1 East,
Salt Lake Base and Meridian; and running thence South 264.4 feet; thence East 164.75 feet;
thence North 264.4 feet; thence West 164.75 feet to the point of beginning.

TOGETHER WITH a 25.00 foot right of way over the following described property:

Beginning at the Northwest Corner of the Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
Section 6, Township 4 South,Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian; and running thence
South 860.87 feet; thence East 25.0 feet; thence North 860.87 feet; thence West 25.0 feet to
the point of beginning.

LESS AND EXCEPTING from the above described right of way, any portion lying within the
legal bounds of 13800 South Street.

PARCEL 2: 34-06-426-049-0000

Beginning at a point 596.47 feet South from the Northwest Corner of the Northeast
Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 6, Township 4 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake
Base and Meridian; and running thence East 25.00 feet; thence South 264.40 feet; thence
West 25.00 feet; thence North 264.40 feet to the point of beginning.
Situated in Salt Lake County, State of Utah

APN: 34-06-426-004-0000 and 34-06-426-049-0000
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT F
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                            MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                         FOR
                                JARVIE ESTATES PHASE 2




                                  ________________, 2022




Last Update Date: 3/31/22             Draper City Contract #   Page 1 of 28
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:


ABF Real Estate, LLC
847 E Draper Meadow Ln
Draper, UT 84020

                            MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                         FOR
                                JARVIE ESTATES PHASE 2

          THIS MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT is made and entered into as of the

____day of ______________, 2022, by and between Draper City, a Utah municipality and ABF

Real Estate, a limited liability company, incorporated in the state of Utah.

                                            RECITALS

          A. The capitalized terms used in this MDA and in these Recitals are defined in Section

1.2, below.

          B. Master Developer is under contract to purchase and develop the Property.

          C. Master Developer and the City desire that the Property be developed in a unified and

consistent fashion pursuant to the Master Plan.

          D. The Parties acknowledge that development of the Property pursuant to this MDA will

result in significant planning benefits to the City and its residents by, among other things requiring

orderly development of the Property as a two lot subdivision known as Jarvie Estates Phase 2.

          E. The Parties desire to enter into this MDA to specify the rights and responsibilities of

the Master Developer to develop the Property as expressed in this MDA and the rights and

responsibilities of the City to allow and regulate such development pursuant to the requirements

of this MDA.

          F. The Parties understand and intend that this MDA is a “development agreement” within


Last Update Date: 3/31/22                  Draper City Contract #                            Page 2 of 28
the meaning of, and entered into pursuant to the terms of Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-101 (2018) et

seq.

          G. On ______________, 2022, the City zoned the Property RA2.

          H. This MDA conforms with the intent of the City’s General Plan and the Zoning.

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and

other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby

acknowledged, the City and Master Developer hereby agree to the following:

                                                 TERMS

     1. Incorporation of Recitals and Exhibits/ Definitions.

          1.1. Incorporation. The foregoing Recitals and Exhibits “A” - “B” are hereby

          incorporated into this MDA.

          1.2. Definitions. As used in this MDA, the words and phrases specified below shall have

          the following meanings:

               1.2.1. Act means the Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Utah Code Ann.

               § 10-9a-101 (2018), et seq.

               1.2.2. Administrator means the person designated by the City as the Administrator

               of this MDA.

               1.2.3. Applicant means a person or entity submitting a Development Application.

               1.2.4. Buildout means the completion of all of the development on the entire Project

               in accordance with the approved plans.

               1.2.5. City means Draper City, a Utah municipality.




Last Update Date: 3/31/22                    Draper City Contract #                         Page 3 of 28
               1.2.6. City Consultants means those outside consultants employed by the City in

               various specialized disciplines such as traffic, hydrology or drainage for reviewing

               certain aspects of the development of the Project.

               1.2.7. City’s Future Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards, and procedures

               which may be in effect as of a particular time in the future when a Development

               Application is submitted for a part of the Project and which may or may not be

               applicable to the Development Application depending upon the provisions of this

               MDA.

               1.2.8. City’s Vested Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards and procedures

               of the City in effect as of the date of this MDA, a digital copy of which is attached as

               Exhibit “C”.

               1.2.9. Council means the elected City Council of the City.

               1.2.10. Default means a material breach of this MDA as specified herein.

               1.2.11. Denied means a formal denial issued by the final decision-making body of the

               City for a particular type of Development Application but does not include review

               comments or “redlines” by City staff.

               1.2.12. Development means the development of a portion of the Property pursuant to

               an approved Development Application.

               1.2.13. Development Application means an application to the City for development

               of a portion of the Project including a Subdivision or any other permit, certificate or

               other authorization from the City required for development of the Project.

               1.2.14. Development Report means a report containing the information specified in

               Section 2.4.
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                    Draper City Contract #                            Page 4 of 28
               1.2.15. Final Plat means the recordable map or other graphical representation of land

               prepared in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-603 (2021), or any successor

               provision, and approved by the City, effectuating a Subdivision of any portion of the

               Project.

               1.2.16. Master Developer means party to MDA, and its assignees or transferees as

               permitted by this MDA.

               1.2.17. Master Plan means the conceptual layout for Residential Dwelling Units and

               Public Infrastructure for the Project

               1.2.18. Maximum Residential Units means the development on the Property of two

               (2) Residential Dwelling Units

               1.2.19. MDA means this Master Development Agreement including all of its

               Exhibits.

               1.2.20. Notice means any notice to or from any Party to this MDA that is either

               required or permitted to be given to another party.

               1.2.21. Open Space shall have the meaning specified in Section 9-3-040 of the City’s

               Vested Laws.

               1.2.22. Outsourc[e][ing] means the process of the City contracting with City

               Consultants or paying overtime to City employees to provide technical support in the

               review and approval of the various aspects of a Development Application as is more

               fully set out in this MDA.

               1.2.23. Parcel means a portion of the Property that is created by the Master

               Developer to be sold to a Subdeveloper as a Subdivision that is not an individually

               developable lot as specified in Section 5.9.
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                     Draper City Contract #                          Page 5 of 28
               1.2.24. Party/Parties means, in the singular, Master Developer or the City; in the

               plural Master Developer and the City.

               1.2.25. Planning Commission means the City’s Planning Commission.

               1.2.26. Project means the total development to be constructed on the Property

               pursuant to this MDA with the associated public and private facilities, and all of the

               other aspects approved as part of this MDA.

               1.2.27. Property means the real property under contract by and to be developed by

               Master Developer more fully described in Exhibit "A".

               1.2.28. Public Infrastructure means those elements of infrastructure that are planned

               to be dedicated to the City as a condition of the approval of a Development

               Application.

               1.2.29. Residential Dwelling Unit means a structure or portion thereof designed and

               intended for use as a single-family residences as illustrated on the Master Plan.

               1.2.30. Subdeveloper means a person or an entity not “related” (as defined by

               Section 165 of the Internal Revenue Code) to Master Developer which purchases a

               Parcel for development.

               1.2.31. Subdivision means the division of any portion of the Project into developable

               lots pursuant to State Law and/or the Zoning Ordinance.

               1.2.32. Subdivision Application means the application to create a Subdivision.

               1.2.33. Zoning means the zone for the Property adopted by the City on

               ______________, 2022.




Last Update Date: 3/31/22                    Draper City Contract #                           Page 6 of 28
               1.2.34. Zoning Ordinance means the City’s Land Use and Development Ordinance

               adopted pursuant to the Act that was in effect as of the date of this MDA as a part of

               the City’s Vested Laws.

     2. Development of the Project.

          2.1. Compliance with the Master Plan and this MDA. Development of the Project

          shall be in accordance with the City’s Vested Laws, the City’s Future Laws (to the extent

          that these are applicable as otherwise specified in this MDA), the Master Plan and this

          MDA.

          2.2. Maximum Residential Units. At Buildout of the Project, Master Developer shall be

          entitled to have developed the Maximum Residential Units as specified in and pursuant to

          this MDA of the type and in the general location as shown on the Master Plan.

          2.3. Limitation and No Guarantee. Master Developer acknowledges that the

          development of the Maximum Residential Units and every other aspect of the Master

          Plan requires that each Development Application comply with the City’s Vested Laws

          including, without limitation, the City’s geologic hazards requirements. The City’s entry

          into this MDA does not guarantee that the Master Developer will be able to construct the

          Maximum Residential Units or any other aspect of the Project until and unless all the

          applicable requirements of the City’s Vested Laws are complied with.

          2.4. Accounting for Residential Units for Parcels Sold to Subdevelopers. Any Parcel

          sold by Master Developer to a Subdeveloper shall include the transfer of a specified

          portion of the Maximum Residential Units sold with the Parcel.

          2.5. Jarvie Lane width requirement. Jarvie Lane is a private road that no longer meets

          the City’s width requirements as defined in DCMC Section 9-27-150(B)(2). A separate
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                    Draper City Contract #                           Page 7 of 28
          access agreement or easement will be required in order for The Property to use Jarvie

          Lane as its primary access. If an easement or access is obtained, the City agrees to waive

          the width requirement for Jarvie Lane and allow the Property to use Jarvie Lane as its

          access. The City will not require Jarvie Lane to be widened to the full private lane width

          standard of 31-feet as outlined in DCMC Section 9-27-150(B)(2). This would allow 9 lots

          on a 30-foot wide private lane.

     3. Vested Rights.

          3.1. Vested Rights Granted by Approval of this MDA. To the maximum extent

          permissible under the laws of Utah and the United States and at equity, the Parties intend

          that this MDA grants Master Developer all rights to develop the Project in fulfillment of

          this MDA, the City’s Vested Laws, the Zoning and the Master Plan except as specifically

          provided herein. The Parties specifically intend that this MDA grant to Master Developer

          “vested rights” as that term is construed in Utah’s common law and pursuant to Utah

          Code Ann. § 10-9a-509 (2018).

          3.2. Exceptions. The restrictions on the applicability of the City’s Future Laws to the

          Project as specified in Section 3.1 are subject to only the following exceptions:

               3.2.1. Master Developer Agreement. City’s Future Laws that Master Developer

               agrees in writing to the application thereof to the Project;

               3.2.2. State and Federal Compliance. City’s Future Laws which are generally

               applicable to all properties in the City and which are required to comply with State

               and Federal laws and regulations affecting the Project;

               3.2.3. Codes. Any City’s Future Laws that are updates or amendments to existing

               building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, dangerous buildings, drainage, fire, or
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                     Draper City Contract #                          Page 8 of 28
               similar construction or safety related codes, such as the International Building Code,

               the APWA Specifications, AAHSTO Standards, the Manual of Uniform Traffic

               Control Devices or similar standards that are generated by a nationally or statewide

               recognized construction/safety organization, or by the State or Federal governments

               and are required to meet legitimate concerns related to public health, safety or

               welfare;

               3.2.4. Taxes. Taxes, or modifications thereto, so long as such taxes are lawfully

               imposed and charged uniformly by the City to all properties, applications, persons

               and entities similarly situated;

               3.2.5. Fees. Changes to the amounts of fees for the processing of Development

               Applications that are generally applicable to all development within the City (or a

               portion of the City as specified in the lawfully adopted fee schedule) and which are

               adopted pursuant to State law;

               3.2.6. Impact Fees. Impact Fees or modifications thereto which are lawfully adopted,

               and imposed by the City and which meet all requirements of the U. S. Constitution,

               Utah Constitution, law and applicable statutes, including but not limited to Utah Code

               Ann. Section 11-36a-101 (2018) et seq.;

               3.2.7. Planning and Zoning Modification. Changes by the City to its planning

               principles and design standards such as architectural or design requirements, setbacks

               or similar items so long as such changes do not work to reduce the Maximum

               Residential Units, are generally applicable across the entire City and do not materially

               and unreasonably increase the costs of any Development; or

               3.2.8. Compelling, Countervailing Interest. Laws, rules or regulations that the City’s
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                     Draper City Contract #                          Page 9 of 28
               land use authority finds, on the record, are necessary to avoid jeopardizing a

               compelling, countervailing public interest pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-

               509(1)(a)(i) (2018).

     4. Term of Agreement. The effective date of this MDA shall be _____________, 2022.

This MDA shall expire _______________, 2027. If Master Developer has not been declared to

be currently in Default as of ____________, 2027 (and if any such Default is not being cured)

then this MDA shall be automatically extended until ______________, 2028. This MDA shall

also terminate automatically at Buildout or if the Master Developer does not acquire the Property

within 365 days of the effective date of this MDA.

     5. Processing of Development Applications.

          5.1. Outsourcing of Processing of Development Applications. Within twenty-one (21)

          calendar days after receipt of a Development Application and upon the request of

          Applicant the City and Applicant will confer to determine whether the City desires to

          outsource the review of any aspect of the Development Application to ensure that it is

          processed on a timely basis. If the City determines that Outsourcing is necessary to

          ensure the timely processing of the Development Application then the City shall

          promptly estimate the reasonably anticipated differential cost of Outsourcing in good

          faith consultation with the Applicant (either overtime to City employees or the hiring of a

          City Consultant). If Applicant notifies the City that it desires to proceed with the

          Outsourcing based on the City’s estimate of costs then Applicant shall deposit in advance

          with the City the estimated differential cost and the City shall then promptly proceed with

          having the work Outsourced. Upon completion of the Outsourcing services and the

          provision by the City of an invoice (with such reasonable supporting documentation as
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                    Draper City Contract #                             Page 10 of 28
          may be requested by Applicant) for the actual differential cost (whether by way of paying

          a City Consultant or paying overtime to City employees) of Outsourcing, Applicant shall,

          within thirty (30) calendar days pay or receive credit (as the case may be) for any

          difference between the estimated differential cost deposited for the Outsourcing and the

          actual cost differential.

          5.2. Acceptance of Certifications Required for Development Applications. Any

          Development Application requiring the signature, endorsement, or certification and/or

          stamping by a person holding a license or professional certification required by the State

          of Utah in a particular discipline shall be so signed, endorsed, certified or stamped

          signifying that the contents of the Development Application comply with the applicable

          regulatory standards of the City. The City should endeavor to make all of its redlines,

          comments or suggestions at the time of the first review of the Development Application

          unless any changes to the Development Application raise new issues that need to be

          addressed.

          5.3. Independent Technical Analyses for Development Applications. If the City

          needs technical expertise beyond the City’s internal resources to determine impacts of a

          Development Application such as for structures, bridges, water tanks, and other similar

          matters which are not required by the City’s Vested Laws to be certified by such experts

          as part of a Development Application, the City may engage such experts as City

          Consultants with the actual and reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant.

          The City Consultant undertaking any review by the City required or permitted by

          this MDA shall be selected from a list generated by the City for each such City

          review pursuant to a “request for proposal” process or as otherwise allowed by
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                   Draper City Contract #                           Page 11 of 28
          City ordinances or regulations. Applicant may, in its sole discretion, strike from

          the list of qualified proposers any of such proposed consultants so long as at least

          three (3) qualified proposers remain for selection. The anticipated cost and

          timeliness of such review may be a factor in choosing the expert. The actual and

          reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant.

          5.4. City Denial of a Development Application. If the City denies a Development

          Application the City shall provide a written determination advising the Applicant of the

          reasons for denial including specifying the reasons the City believes that the

          Development Application is not consistent with this MDA, the Zoning and/or the City’s

          Vested Laws (or, if applicable, the City’s Future Laws).

          5.5. Meet and Confer regarding Development Application Denials. The City and

          Applicant shall meet within twenty-one (21) calendar days of any Denial to resolve the

          issues specified in the Denial of a Development Application.

          5.6. City Denials of Development Applications Based on Denials from Non-City

          Agencies. If the City’s denial of a Development Application is based on the denial of the

          Development Application by a Non-City Agency, Applicant shall appeal any such denial

          through the appropriate procedures for such a decision and not through the processes

          specified below.

          5.7. Mediation of Development Application Denials.

               5.7.1. Issues Subject to Mediation. Issues resulting from the City’s Denial of a

               Development Application that the parties are not able to resolve by “Meet and

               Confer” shall be mediated and include the following:


Last Update Date: 3/31/22                    Draper City Contract #                          Page 12 of 28
                            (i) the location of On-Site Infrastructure, including utility lines and stub outs

                            to adjacent developments,

                            (ii) right-of-way modifications that do not involve the altering or vacating of a

                            previously dedicated public right-of-way,

                            (iii)   interpretations, minor technical edits or inconsistencies necessary to clarify

                            or modify documents consistent with their intended purpose of the Development

                            Standards, and

                            (iv)    the issuance of building permits.

               5.7.2. Mediation Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve a

               disagreement subject to mediation, the parties shall attempt within fifteen (15)

               calendar days to appoint a mutually acceptable mediator with knowledge of the legal

               issue in dispute. If the City and Applicant are unable to agree on a single acceptable

               mediator they shall each, within fifteen (15) calendar days, appoint their own

               representative. These two representatives shall, between them, choose the single

               mediator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen mediator, each

               Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen mediator shall within fifteen (15) calendar

               days, review the positions of the parties regarding the mediation issue and promptly

               attempt to mediate the issue between the parties. If the parties are unable to reach

               agreement, the mediator shall notify the parties in writing of the ordinance that the

               mediator deems appropriate. The mediator's opinion shall not be binding on the

               parties.

          5.8. Arbitration of Development Application Objections.


Last Update Date: 3/31/22                             Draper City Contract #                            Page 13 of 28
               5.8.1. Arbitration Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve an issue

               through mediation, the parties may then attempt within fifteen (15) calendar days to

               appoint a mutually acceptable arbitrator with knowledge of the legal issue in dispute.

               If the parties are unable to agree on a single acceptable arbitrator they shall each,

               within fifteen (15) calendar days, each Party shall appoint their own individual

               appropriate expert. These two experts shall, between them, choose the single

               arbitrator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen arbitrator, each

               Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen arbitrator shall within fifteen (15) calendar

               days, review the positions of the parties regarding the arbitration issue and render a

               decision. The arbitrator shall ask the prevailing party to draft a proposed order for

               consideration and objection by the other side. Upon adoption by the arbitrator, and

               consideration of such objections, the arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding

               upon both parties. If the arbitrator determines as a part of the decision that the City’s

               or Applicant’s position was not only incorrect but was also maintained unreasonably

               and not in good faith then the arbitrator may order the City or Applicant to pay the

               arbitrator’s fees.

          5.9. Parcel Sales. The City acknowledges that the precise location and details of the

          public improvements, lot layout and design and any other similar item regarding the

          development of a particular Parcel may not be known at the time of the creation of or sale

          of a Parcel. Master Developer may obtain approval of a Subdivision as is provided in

          Utah Code Ann., Section 10-9a-103(64)(c)(v) (2019) that does not create any

          individually developable lots in the Parcel without being subject to any requirement in

          the City’s Vested Laws to complete or provide security for any Public Infrastructure at
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                     Draper City Contract #                            Page 14 of 28
          the time of such subdivision. The responsibility for completing and providing security

          for completion of any Public Infrastructure in the Parcel shall be that of the Master

          Developer or a Subdeveloper upon a subsequent re-Subdivision of the Parcel that creates

          individually developable lots. However, construction of improvements shall not be

          allowed until the Master Developer or Subdeveloper complies with the City’s Vested

          Laws.

     6. Application Under City’s Future Laws. Without waiving any rights granted by this

MDA, Master Developer may at any time, choose to submit a Development Application for all

or part of the Project under the City’s Future Laws in effect at the time of the Development

Application so long as Master Developer is not in current breach of this Agreement.

     7. Public Infrastructure.

          7.1. Construction by and Master Developer. Master Developer shall have the right and

          the obligation to construct or cause to be constructed and installed all Public

          Infrastructure reasonably and lawfully required as a condition of approval of the

          Development Application pursuant to the City’s Vested Laws.

          7.2. Bonding. If and to the extent required by the City's Vested Laws, unless otherwise

          provided by Chapter 10-9a of the Utah Code as amended, security for any Public or

          private Infrastructure—is required by the City Applicant shall provide it in a form

          acceptable to the City as specified in the City's Vested Laws. Partial releases of any such

          required security shall be made as work progresses based on the City's Vested Laws.

     8. Upsizing/Reimbursements to Master Developer.

          8.1. "Upsizing". The City shall not require Master Developer to “upsize” any future

          Public Infrastructure (i.e., to construct the infrastructure to a size larger than required to
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                     Draper City Contract #                            Page 15 of 28
          service the Project) unless financial arrangements reasonably acceptable to Master

          Developer are made to compensate Master Developer for the incremental or additive

          costs of such upsizing. For example, if an upsizing to a water pipe size increases costs by

          10% but adds 50% more capacity, the City shall only be responsible to compensate

          Master Developer for the 10% cost increase. An acceptable financial arrangement for

          upsizing of improvements means reimbursement agreements, payback agreements, and

          impact fee credits and reimbursements.

     9. Default.

          9.1. Notice. If Master Developer or a Subdeveloper or the City fails to perform their

          respective obligations hereunder or to comply with the terms hereof, the Party believing

          that a Default has occurred shall provide Notice to the other Party. If the City believes

          that the Default has been committed by a Subdeveloper then the City shall also provide a

          courtesy copy of the Notice to Master Developer.

          9.2. Contents of the Notice of Default. The Notice of Default shall:

               9.2.1. Specific Claim. Specify the claimed event of Default;

               9.2.2. Applicable Provisions. Identify with particularity the provisions of any

               applicable law, rule, regulation or provision of this MDA that is claimed to be in

               Default;

               9.2.3. Materiality. Identify why the Default is claimed to be material; and

               9.2.4. Optional Cure. If the City chooses, in its discretion, it may propose a method

               and time for curing the Default which shall be of no less than thirty (30) calendar

               days duration.

          9.3. Meet and Confer, Mediation, Arbitration. Upon the issuance of a Notice of
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                    Draper City Contract #                          Page 16 of 28
          Default the parties shall engage in the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation” processes

          specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the claimed Default is subject to Arbitration as

          provided in Section 5.8 then the parties shall follow such processes.

          9.4. Remedies. If the parties are not able to resolve the Default by “Meet and Confer” or

          by “Mediation”, and if the Default is not subject to arbitration then the parties may have

          the following remedies, except as specifically limited in 10.9:

               9.4.1. Law and Equity. All rights and remedies available at law and in equity,

               including, but not limited to, injunctive relief and/or specific performance.

               9.4.2. Security. The right to draw on any security posted or provided in connection

               with the Project and relating to remedying of the particular Default.

               9.4.3. Future Approvals. The right to withhold all further reviews, approvals,

               licenses, building permits and/or other permits for development of the Project in the

               case of a default by Master Developer, or in the case of a default by a Subdeveloper,

               development of those Parcels owned by the Subdeveloper until the Default has been

               cured.

          9.5. Public Meeting. Before any remedy in Section 9.4 may be imposed by the City the

          party allegedly in Default shall be afforded the right to attend a public meeting before the

          City Council and address the City Council regarding the claimed Default.

          9.6. Emergency Defaults. Anything in this MDA notwithstanding, if the City Council

          finds on the record that a default materially impairs a compelling, countervailing interest

          of the City and that any delays in imposing such a default would also impair a

          compelling, countervailing interest of the City then the City may impose the remedies of

          Section 9.4 without the requirements of Sections 9.5. The City shall give Notice to
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                    Draper City Contract #                            Page 17 of 28
          Master Developer and/or any applicable Subdeveloper of any public meeting at which an

          emergency default is to be considered and the Master Developer and/or any applicable

          Subdeveloper shall be allowed to address the City Council at that meeting regarding the

          claimed emergency Default.

          9.7. Extended Cure Period. If any Default cannot be reasonably cured within thirty (30)

          calendar days then such cure period shall be extended so long as the defaulting party is

          pursuing a cure with reasonable diligence.

          9.8. Default of Assignee. A default of any obligations assumed by an assignee shall not

          be deemed a default of Master Developer.

          9.9. Limitation on Recovery for Default – No Damages. Anything in this MDA

          notwithstanding no Party shall be entitled to any claim for any monetary damages as a

          result of any breach of this MDA and each Party waives any claims thereto. The sole

          remedy available to Master Developer or any Subdeveloper shall be that of specific

          performance.

     10. Notices. All notices required or permitted under this MDA shall, in addition to any other

means of transmission, be given in writing by certified mail and regular mail to the following

address:

     To the Master Developer:

     Andrew Flamm
     ABF Real Estate, LLC
     847 E Draper Meadow Ln
     Draper, UT 84020
     andy@allegiantutah.com
     801-641-2097


     To the City:
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                   Draper City Contract #                         Page 18 of 28
     Draper City
     Attn: City Manager
     David Dobbins
     1020 East Pioneer Road
     Draper, UT 84020
     David.dobbins@draper.ut.us
     (801) 576-6500

     With a Copy to:

     Draper City
     Attn: City Attorney
     Mike Barker
     1020 East Pioneer Road
     Draper, UT 84020
     Mike.barker@draper.ut.us
     (801) 576-6500


          10.1. Effectiveness of Notice. Except as otherwise provided in this MDA, each Notice

          shall be effective and shall be deemed delivered on the earlier of:

               10.1.1. Hand Delivery. Its actual receipt, if delivered personally, by courier service,

               or by facsimile provided that a copy of the facsimile Notice is mailed or personally

               delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has confirmation

               of transmission receipt of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same day, then

               notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal delivery occurs.

               10.1.2. Electronic Delivery. Its actual receipt if delivered electronically by email

               provided that a copy of the email is printed out in physical form and mailed or

               personally delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has an

               electronic receipt of the delivery of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same

               day, then notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal

               delivery occurs.
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                    Draper City Contract #                           Page 19 of 28
               10.1.3. Mailing. On the day the Notice is postmarked for mailing, postage prepaid,

               by First Class or Certified United States Mail and actually deposited in or delivered to

               the United States Mail. Any party may change its address for Notice under this MDA

               by giving written Notice to the other party in accordance with the provisions of this

               Section.

     11. Headings. The captions used in this MDA are for convenience only and a not intended

to be substantive provisions or evidences of intent.

     12. No Third-Party Rights/No Joint Venture. This MDA does not create a joint venture

relationship, partnership or agency relationship between the City, or Master Developer. Further,

the parties do not intend this MDA to create any third-party beneficiary rights. The Parties

acknowledge that this MDA refers to a private development and that the City has no interest in,

responsibility for or duty to any third parties concerning any improvements to the Property or

unless the City has accepted the dedication of such improvements at which time all rights and

responsibilities—except for warranty bond requirements under City’s Vested Laws and as

allowed by state law—for the dedicated public improvement shall be the City's.

     13. Assignability. The rights and responsibilities of Master Developer under this MDA may

be assigned in whole or in part, respectively, by Master Developer with the consent of the City as

provided herein.

          13.1. Sale of Lots. Master Developer’s selling or conveying lots in any approved

          Subdivision or Parcels to builders, users, or Subdevelopers, shall not be deemed to be an

          “assignment” subject to the above-referenced approval by the City unless specifically

          designated as such an assignment by Master Developer.

          13.2. Related Entity. Master Developer’s transfer of all or any part of the Property to
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                    Draper City Contract #                          Page 20 of 28
          any entity “related” to Master Developer (as defined by regulations of the Internal

          Revenue Service in Section 165), Master Developer’s entry into a joint venture for the

          development of the Project or Master Developer’s pledging of part or all of the Project as

          security for financing shall also not be deemed to be an “assignment” subject to the

          above-referenced approval by the City unless specifically designated as such an

          assignment by the Master Developer. Master Developer shall give the City Notice of any

          event specified in this sub-section within fifteen (15) calendar days after the event has

          occurred. Such Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact

          information for the newly responsible party.

          13.3. Notice. Master Developer shall give Notice to the City of any proposed

          assignment and provide such information regarding the proposed assignee that the City

          may reasonably request in making the evaluation permitted under this Section. Such

          Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact information for the

          proposed assignee.

          13.4. Time for Objection. Unless the City objects in writing within thirty (30) calendar

          days of notice, the City shall be deemed to have approved of and consented to the

          assignment.

          13.5. Partial Assignment. If any proposed assignment is for less than all of Master

          Developer’s rights and responsibilities then the assignee shall be responsible for the

          performance of each of the obligations contained in this MDA to which the assignee

          succeeds. Upon any such approved partial assignment Master Developer shall not be

          released from any future obligations as to those obligations which are assigned but shall

          remain responsible for the performance of any obligations herein.
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                   Draper City Contract #                           Page 21 of 28
          13.6. Denial. The City may only withhold its consent if the City is not reasonably

          satisfied of the assignee’s financial ability to perform the obligations of or Master

          Developer proposed to be assigned or there is an existing breach of a development

          obligation owed to the City by the assignee or related entity that has not either been cured

          or in the process of being cured in a manner acceptable to the City. Any refusal of the

          City to accept an assignment shall be subject to the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation”

          processes specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the refusal is subject to Arbitration as

          provided in Section 5.8 then the Parties shall follow such processes.

          13.7. Assignees Bound by MDA. Any assignee shall consent in writing to be bound by

          the assigned terms and conditions of this MDA as a condition precedent to the

          effectiveness of the assignment. That consent shall specifically acknowledge the

          provisions of Section 2.

     14. Binding Effect. If Master Developer sells or conveys Parcels of lands to Subdevelopers

or related parties, the lands so sold and conveyed shall bear the same rights, privileges,

configurations, and number of Residential Dwelling Units as applicable to such Parcel and be

subject to the same limitations and rights of the City when owned by or Master Developer and as

set forth in this MDA without any required approval, review, or consent by the City except as

otherwise provided herein.

     15. No Waiver. Failure of any Party hereto to exercise any right hereunder shall not be

deemed a waiver of any such right and shall not affect the right of such party to exercise at some

future date any such right or any other right it may have.

     16. Severability. If any provision of this MDA is held by a court of competent jurisdiction

to be invalid for any reason, the Parties consider and intend that this MDA shall be deemed
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                    Draper City Contract #                           Page 22 of 28
amended to the extent necessary to make it consistent with such decision and the balance of this

MDA shall remain in full force and affect.

     17. Force Majeure. Any prevention, delay or stoppage of the performance of any obligation

under this Agreement which is due to strikes, labor disputes, inability to obtain labor, materials,

equipment or reasonable substitutes therefor; acts of nature, governmental restrictions,

regulations or controls, judicial orders, enemy or hostile government actions, wars, civil

commotions, fires or other casualties or other causes beyond the reasonable control of the Party

obligated to perform hereunder shall excuse performance of the obligation by that Party for a

period equal to the duration of that prevention, delay or stoppage.

     18. Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence to this MDA and every right or

responsibility shall be performed within the times specified.

     19. Appointment of Representatives. To further the commitment of the Parties to

cooperate in the implementation of this MDA, the City and Master Developer each shall

designate and appoint a representative to act as a liaison between the City and its various

departments and the Master Developer. The initial representative for the City shall be the City

Manager. The initial representative for Master Developer shall be Andrew Flamm. The Parties

may change their designated representatives by Notice. The representatives shall be available at

all reasonable times to discuss and review the performance of the Parties to this MDA and the

development of the Project.

     20. Applicable Law. This MDA is entered into in Salt Lake County in the State of Utah and

shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah irrespective of Utah’s choice

of law rules.

     21. Venue. Any action to enforce this MDA shall be brought only in the Third District Court
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                 Draper City Contract #                             Page 23 of 28
for the State of Utah, Salt Lake City Division.

     22. Entire Agreement. This MDA, and all Exhibits thereto, is the entire agreement between

the Parties and may not be amended or modified except either as provided herein or by a

subsequent written amendment signed by all Parties.

     23. Mutual Drafting. Each Party has participated in negotiating and drafting this MDA and

therefore no provision of this MDA shall be construed for or against any Party based on which

Party drafted any particular portion of this MDA.

     24. Recordation and Running with the Land. This MDA shall be recorded in the chain of

title for the Project. This MDA shall be deemed to run with the land. The data disk of the City’s

Vested Laws, Exhibit “C”, shall not be recorded in the chain of title. A secure copy of Exhibit

“C” shall be filed with the City Recorder and each party shall also have an identical copy.

     25. Authority. The Parties to this MDA each warrant that they have all of the necessary

authority to execute this MDA. Specifically, on behalf of the City, the signature of the City

Manager of the City is affixed to this MDA lawfully binding the City pursuant to Ordinance No.

___ adopted by the City on ___________________, 2022.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement by and through

their respective, duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first herein above written.

MASTER DEVELOPER                               CITY
party to MDA                                   Draper City

_______________________                        _____________________
By: ________________                           By: ___________,
Its: _________________                         Its: City Manager
Date: ____________                             Date: ____________

Approved as to form and legality:              Attest:

__________________                             __________________
Last Update Date: 3/31/22                 Draper City Contract #                           Page 24 of 28
City Attorney                                City Recorder

CITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH                )
                                 :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

On the ___ day of _____________, 2022 personally appeared before me ___________who being
by me duly sworn, did say that he is the City Manager of Draper City, a political subdivision of
the State of Utah, and that said instrument was signed in behalf of the City by authority of its
City Council and said City Manager acknowledged to me that the City executed the same.

                                             __________________________________
                                             NOTARY PUBLIC


My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________


MASTER DEVELOPER ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH       )
                    :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

        On the ___ day of _____________, 2022, personally appeared before me
______________, who being by me duly sworn, did say that he/she is the ______________ of
______________, a Utah ______________ and that the foregoing instrument was duly
authorized by the company at a lawful meeting held by authority of its operating agreement and
signed in behalf of said company.

                                                        ______________________________
                                                        NOTARY PUBLIC

My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________




Last Update Date: 3/31/22               Draper City Contract #                         Page 25 of 28
                            TABLE OF EXHIBITS


Exhibit “A”                         Legal Description of Property
Exhibit “B”                         Master Plan




Last Update Date: 3/31/22      Draper City Contract #               Page 26 of 28
                                              Exhibit “A”
                                      Legal Description of Property

PARCEL 1: 34-06-426-004-0000

Beginning at a point 25.0 feet East and 596.47 feet South of the Northwest Corner of the Northeast Quarter of
the Southeast Quarter of Section 6, Township 4 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian; and
running thence South 264.4 feet; thence East 164.75 feet; thence North 264.4 feet; thence West 164.75 feet to
the point of beginning.

TOGETHER WITH a 25.00 foot right of way over the following described property:

Beginning at the Northwest Corner of the Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 6, Township 4
South,Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian; and running thence South 860.87 feet; thence East 25.0
feet; thence North 860.87 feet; thence West 25.0 feet to the point of beginning.

LESS AND EXCEPTING from the above described right of way, any portion lying within the legal bounds of
13800 South Street.

PARCEL 2: 34-06-426-049-0000

Beginning at a point 596.47 feet South from the Northwest Corner of the Northeast Quarter of the Southeast
Quarter of Section 6, Township 4 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian; and running thence East
25.00 feet; thence South 264.40 feet; thence West 25.00 feet; thence North 264.40 feet to the point of
beginning.
Situated in Salt Lake County, State of Utah

APN: 34-06-426-004-0000 and 34-06-426-049-0000




Last Update Date: 3/31/22                     Draper City Contract #                               Page 27 of 28
                              Exhibit “B”
                              Master Plan




Last Update Date: 3/31/22   Draper City Contract #   Page 28 of 28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JARVIE ESTATES PHASE 2 SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I, BRIAN A. LINAM DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT I AM A PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR, AND THAT I HOLD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 6,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CERTIFICATE NO. 7240531, IN ACCORDANCE WITH TITLE 58, CHAPTER 22, OF THE PROFESSIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ENGINEERS AND LAND SURVEYORS ACT; I FURTHER CERTIFY THAT BY AUTHORITY OF THE OWNERS I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HAVE COMPLETED A SURVEY OF THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED ON THIS SUBDIVISION PLAT IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 17-23-17, HAVE VERIFIED ALL MEASUREMENTS, AND HAVE SUBDIVIDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SAID TRACT OF LAND INTO LOTS, AND A STREET, TOGETHER WITH EASEMENTS, HEREAFTER TO BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAPER CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KNOWN AS:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GRAPHIC SCALE                                                                                                                    JARVIE ESTATES PHASE 2 SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         40                                         0                   20                         40                                   80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AND THAT THE SAME HAS BEEN CORRECTLY SURVEYED AND STAKED ON THE GROUND AS SHOWN ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THIS PLAT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ( IN FEET )                                                                                                                       BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1 inch = 40 ft.                                                                                   A TRACT OF LAND LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 6, TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE
                                                                                             EAST QUARTER CORNER, SECTION 6,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN. SAID TRACT OF LAND BEING MORE PARTICULARLY
                                                                                             TOWNSHIP4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
                                                                                             SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
                                                                                             (FOUND BRASS CAP)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BEGINNING AT A POINT ON THE EASTERLY BOUNDARY OF SOUTHAM ESTATES SUBDIVISION, SAID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 POINT BEING SOUTH 89°53'28” WEST 1321.10 FEET TO THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF THE NORTHEAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 QUARTER OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SAID SECTION 6, AND SOUTH 00°05'00” WEST 596.47 FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ALONG SAID EASTERLY BOUNDARY OF SOUTHAM ESTATES FROM THE EAST QUARTER CORNER OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SAID SECTION 6, AND RUNNING THENCE SOUTH 89°55'00” EAST 191.45 FEET TO THE WESTERLY LINE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JARVIES ESTATES SUBDIVISION; THENCE SOUTH 00°01'30”WEST 261.18 FEET ALONG SAID WESTERLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LINE TO THE NORTHERLY LINE OF JOHNSON ACRES SUBDIVISION; THENCE NORTH 89°33'36” WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 191.72 FEET ALONG SAID NORTHERLY LINE TO SAID EASTERLY BOUNDARY LINE OF SOUTHAM ESTATES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SUBDIVISION; THENCE NORTH 00°05'00” EAST 259.99 FEET ALONG SAID EASTERLY BOUNDARY OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SOUTHAM ESTATES SUBDIVISION TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A L LA ND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONTAINS 1.146 ACRES, MORE OR LESS.                                                ON          S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROFESSI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2 LOTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V EY OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7240531
                   S 89°55'00" E 2642.45' (MEASURED)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BRIAN A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LINAM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TA                 H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T E OF UT A
                          BESIS OF BEARINGS


                                                       N 89°53'28" E 2642.19' (CALCULATED)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JARVIES LANE (525 EAST) (PUBLIC ROAD)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OWNER'S DEDICATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 00°01'30" W 261.18'                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I/WE, THE UNDERSIGNED OWNER(S) OF THE HEREON DESCRIBED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           130.59'                                                                                     130.59'                                                                                                                                                                  TRACT OF LAND, AS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT AND NAME SAID PLAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JARVIE ESTATES PHASE 2 SUBDIVISION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N 89°33'36" W 191.72'
         13800 SOUTH STREET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S 89°55'00" E 191.45'
                                                                                                                                                                              S     2
                                                                                                                                                                           ICK 26-06                                                                                                    S      2
                                                       1321.10'




                                                                                                                                                                          W                                                                                                          ICK 26-02
                                                                                                                                                                        W. 6-4                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W. 6-4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AND DO HEREBY DEDICATE, GRANT AND CONVEY TO DRAPER CITY, UTAH: (1) ALL THOSE PARTS OR
                                                                                                                                                                     UL 34-0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
            (PUBLIC ROAD)




                                                                                                                                                                    A                                                                                                         UL 34-0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S 89°44'17" E 191.59'
                                                                                                                                                                  P #                                                                                                       A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P #                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N                                                                          PORTIONS OF SAID TRACT OF LAND DESIGNATED AS STREETS, THE SAME TO BE USED AS PUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                      L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OH ES
                                                                                                                                                                   CE                                                           RIGHT OF WAY & EASEMENT                     CE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S J ACR 5
                                                                                                                                                             P   AR                                                                                                      AR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S                                                                                THOROUGHFARES FOREVER; (2) THOSE CERTAIN PUBLIC UTILITY AND DRAINAGE EASEMENTS AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENTRY NO. 5533964                       P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TE N      -05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 101                                                                                   LOT 102                                                                                A . & NSO -426                                                                          SHOWN HEREON, THE SAME TO BE USED FOR THE INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE, AND OPERATION OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HY OH -06                                                                                   PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE LINES AND DRAINAGE; AND (3) THOSE PARCELS DESIGNATED AS PUBLIC OPEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         24,953 SQ FT                                                                            24,970 SQ FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M OT 1, J # 34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               25 FOOT RIGHT OF WAY                                                                                                      0.573 ACRES                                                                             0.573 ACRES                                                                    TI LOT EL                                                                                         SPACE, PARKS, TRAIL OR EASEMENTS, OR OF SIMILAR DESIGNATION. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WE HAVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ENTRY NO. 3085282 &                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PA                                                                                          HEREUNTO SET OUR HANDS THIS           DAY OF             , 20     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ???                                                                                               ???
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ENTRY NO. 3483732 &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ENTRY NO. 5533964




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TIMOTHY A. JOHNSON                                  TESS JOHNSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W. WIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            25.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PAUL -06-426-048
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PA   RCEL#                                                                 129.99'                                                                                129.99'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N 00°05'00" E 259.99'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ACKNOWLEDGMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         POB                                                                                                                                                            N                                                                               ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W                                               TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N                             G DE TES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O STA 07                                                                     LY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T RU TES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                State of Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      }    S.S.
                                                       1321.10'




                                                                                                                NORTHWEST CORNER OF THE NORTHEAST                                                                                                                                                                                                    LO S                                                        O KS                                                           R.    E -0                                                                  A MI ES -008                                                                        County OF SALT LAKE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O                                                                                                                          N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O HAM -403
                                                                                                                QUARTER OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER SECTION 6,                                                                                                                                                                                      TH TE                                                        RO S                                                         S                                                                             Y F AM 03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AR STA 05                                                    A C TATE                                                     CK UT        6                                                                 DA UTH -06-4
                                                                                                                TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,                                                                                                                                                                                             B     E -0                                                   D                                                            JA , SO 34-0                                                                 9 5   O                                                                                        ON THE_____DAY OF __________, A.D.20___, PERSONALLY APPEARED BEFORE ME, THE UNDERSIGNED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NIC THAM -403
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HO AM E 03-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   06                                                                                                                            19 8, S # 34
                                                                                                                SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R                                                                    T 7 L#                                                                       T      L                                                                                      NOTARY PUBLIC COMMISSIONED IN THE STATE OF UTAH, TIMOTHY A. JOHNSON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M  O   U      -06                                             E & TH 6-4                                                            LO ARCE                                                                     LO ARCE
                                                                                                                (NOT FOUND)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N T & 5, SO # 34                                                & LE SOU 34-0                                                               P                                                                            P                                                                                             AND TESS JOHNSON, THE SIGNERS OF THE FOREGOING DEDICATION WHO DULY ACKNOWLEDGE TO ME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BR LOT RCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L                                                K     6,    #                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THAT HE DOES EXECUTE THE SAME.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A                                                  R OC LOT RCEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                P                                                  B          PA
                                                                                                                                                  BASIS OF BEARINGS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MY COMMISSION EXPIRES: __________________              COMMISSION NUMBER:_________________
                                                                                                                                                  CENTERLINE 13800 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (DATE)
                                                                                                                                                  (S 89°55'00" E)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (SIGNED) A NOTARY PUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                        CALCULATED SECTION LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PRINT NAME                                          COMMISSIONED IN UTAH
                                                                                              CENTERLINE MONUMENT                                                       (N 89°53'28" E)
                                                                                                  AT 300 E. & 13800 S.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VICINITY MAP
                                                                                                 (FOUND BRASS CAP)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MOUNTAIN
                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                               8.86                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13710 S.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KENNINGTON CT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FORT ST.
                                                                                                                                                   8.86'
                                                                                                                                                                              TRUE CENTER OF SECTION 6,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BROWN FARM LN.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHADOW
                                                                                                                                                                              TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
                                                                                                                                                                              SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN.
                                                                                                              S 89°52'48" E 0.27'                                             (NOT FOUND)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13800 S.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CROMWELL LN.
                                                                                                                                                                              (PER ARP & R2)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WHEADON CT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BANGERTER HWY.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ARROW CREEK DR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T     RA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N  AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SITE                                                                             CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D                                                       .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OSBORNE LN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OO                                                      DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HW                                                                    RK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BE                                                                      FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NORTH                                                                                                                                                  SO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          K DR                                              .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AI                                                             E    E                                                 DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R                                                        CR                                                       AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NA                                                      OW                                                    H  L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LL                                                                   HIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NTS                                              CA                                       HO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RECORD OF SURVEY                                             COMCAST                                                       WATER PRO                                                       ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER                                                                                                             CENTURY LINK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JARVIE ESTATES PHASE 2 SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R.O.S. NO.:                                        APPROVED THIS ______DAY OF _____________,                           APPROVED THIS _______DAY OF ____________,                                    APPROVED THIS ________ DAY OF                                                   APPROVED THIS ________ DAY OF ____________,
DEVELOPER:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A.D. 20___.                                                         A.D. 20___.                                                                  ____________, A.D. 20___ .                                                      A.D. 20___ .
ANDY FLAMM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 6,
801-641-2097                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
ANDY@ALLEGIANTUTAH.COM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAPER CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                 SHEET 1 OF 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COUNTY SURVEYOR REVIEWER               DATE

                                                                                                                                                                                    SOUTH VALLEY SEWER DISTRICT                          PLANNING COMMISSION                           SALT LAKE COUNTY HEALTH DEPT.                                          CITY ENGINEER'S CERTIFICATE                                                                      APPROVAL AS TO FORM                                                                                              DRAPER CITY MAYOR'S APPROVAL                                                                                      RECORDER'S OFFICE
                     BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                         SUBDIVISION ADDRESS:                                  APPROVED THIS _______ DAY OF ________________,   APPROVED THIS ________ DAY OF ______________ ,             APPROVED THIS __________DAY OF                                I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THIS OFFICE HAS EXAMINED                                                   APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS _________ DAY                                                                     PRESENTED TO THE DRAPER CITY MAYOR THIS ________                                                     STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST
                    ENGINEERING &                                                                                        498 EAST 13800 SOUTH                                  A.D. 20_____.                                    A.D. 20___.                                                _____________, A.D. 20_____ .                                 THIS PLAT AND IT IS CORRECT IN ACCORDANCE WITH                                                   OF ___________, A.D. 20____.                                                                               DAY OF __________, A.D. 20___, AT WHICH TIME THIS                                                    OF_________________________________________________________________________
                   LAND SURVEYING                                                                                        DRAPER CITY, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INFORMATION ON FILE IN THIS OFFICE.                                                                                                                                                                         SUBDIVISION WAS APPROVED AND ACCEPTED.                                                               DATE_____________TIME ______ BOOK _______ PAGE______

                9138 SOUTH STATE STREET SUITE # 100
                                                                                                                               (PUBLIC ROAD)




                   SANDY, UTAH 84070 (801) 542-7192
                       www.benchmarkcivil.com                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FEE $                              DEPUTY SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
                                                                                                                                                                                 SOUTH VALLEY SEWER DISTRICT: DIRECTOR                   PLANNING COMMISSION CHAIR                                                                                          DRAPER CITY ENGINEER                    DATE                                                            DRAPER CITY ATTORNEY                                                                               ATTEST: RECORDER                                                            MAYOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2201006sp.dwg
    EXHIBIT G
RESIDENT LETTERS
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                                Broc Crookston <broccrookston@gmail.com>
Sent:                                Sunday, April 3, 2022 10:45 AM
To:                                  Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                             Jarvie Lane



Dear Jennifer,

I live west of the 1.4 acres for phase 2 of the Jarvie Estates. I am willing to support the change from
40,000 sq foot lots to 20,000 but I would like to see a fence around the property. I would like to see
the same fence the Jarvie Estates has installed along the west side of their property. I also would like
to see the removal of the large elm trees that produce elm bugs and are a big mess.

Other than that as long the homes being built meet all of Drapers codes.

Thanks

Broc Crookston
Arrow Creek
Draper UT

This e-mail, including attachments, may include confidential and/or
proprietary information, and may be used only by the person or entity
to which it is addressed. If the reader of this e-mail is not the intended
recipient or his or her authorized agent, the reader is hereby notified
that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail is
prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please notify the
sender by replying to this message and delete this e-mail immediately.




                                                                 1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                         JACOB TOOMBS <millcreekhomes@msn.com>
Sent:                         Tuesday, April 5, 2022 10:32 AM
To:                           Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                      Jarvie estates Phase 2



Hi Jennifer,

Wanted to express my approval of the Jarvie Estates 2 subdivision, Andy and I have been working together on
utilities coming from my subdivision to his. I think it will work out great. Hope to see an approval.

Thanks!

Jacob Toombs, President

www.millcreekhomesutah.com




                                                     1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                             markj.insdev@gmail.com
Sent:                             Wednesday, April 6, 2022 7:25 PM
To:                               Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                          Zoning Map Amendment Jarvie Estates


Jennifer,

I am not in favor of the proposed change adding more lots to the Jarvie Estates. This whole development would have
made a lot more sense if it was accessed off of 13800 South rather than Beachwood Drive. As it is, all of the traffic from
Jarvie Estates will be funneled down Arrow Creek Drive, where I have a residence. Our street is already busy enough
with neighborhood traffic and sometimes backs up at the stop sign onto 13800 South.

That’s my input. Thanks for coordinating citizen input.

Best regards,

Mark Jones
13966 S Arrow Creek Dr




                                                             1
