Draft minutes 11/18/2021
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2021 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:        Chairperson Andrew Adams, Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker,
                      Commissioners Gary Ogden, Lisa Fowler, Mary Squire, and John Van
                      Hoff, and Alternate Commissioner Bingham

ABSENT:               Alternate Commissioners Susan Nixon and DeLaina Tonks


STAFF PRESENT:        Jennifer Jastremsky, Mike Barker, Brien Maxfield, Spencer DuShane,
                      Amie Salazar, Maryann Pickering and Todd Draper

6:30 PM Business Meeting:


1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for October 14, 2021
       (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to approve and the Planning Commission meeting
minutes for October 14, 2021 meeting.

Second: Commissioner Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Fowler, Van Hoff, Squire and Hawker voted, “Aye”.

2.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting dates for 2022 (Administrative
       Action)

Motion: Commissioner Ogden motioned to approve and the Planning Commission Meeting
Dates for 2022.

Second: Commissioner Van Hoff.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Fowler, Van Hoff, Squire and Hawker voted, “Aye”.


3.     Public Hearing: Highpointe Center Site Plan and Minor Subdivision Requests
       (Administrative Action)

A request by Greg Goffin of Thrive Corp, representing property owner Joseph Sorenson, for
approval of a site plan for the purpose of constructing a new office building, with a deviation for
increased building height, and minor subdivision to create two lots from one existing lot in the CR
(Regional Commercial) zone. The property is located at approximately 14658 S. Bangerter
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 18, 2021
Page 2
Parkway.      Staff    contact:   Maryann             Pickering      at     801-576-6391        or
maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Chair Adams introduced the agenda item.

Maryann Pickering, Planner presented an aerial view of the property and indicated it is located on
the corner of Bangerter Highway and Highland Drive. She mentioned the land use designation is
Neighborhood Commercial and the Zoning is (CR) Regional Commercial. The applicant is
proposing to construct an office building on the northern portion of the site. There will be some
parking located under the building and the remainder of the parking separates the building from
Highland Drive. Site access is provided on Bangerter and Highland. Landscaping is provided along
Bangerter and future right-of-way is shown along Highland. She showed the building elevations
and indicated the proposed materials meet code. A height deviation is proposed to increase the
height for a portion of the building. The average building height is 52 feet and the maximum
allowed under the CR District is 45 feet. A plat amendment is requested to create an additional lot
for future development.

Commissioner Fowler asked why they are subdividing the property.

Maryann Pickering responded they currently do not have a plan for that portion of the site.

Vice Chair Hawker asked if there will be right-in-right-outs at both access points or will there be
a median within the street right-of-way (ROW).

Brien Maxfield, Senior City Engineer stated the access on Bangerter Highway is currently a right-
in-right-out and the access on Highland would allow for a full movement based on current traffic
volumes. Eventually it may become a right-in-right-out.

Commissioner Van Hoff asked if there is a raised median on Bangerter Highway.

Brien Maxfield, Senior City Engineer responded there currently is not one and the city is not
requiring one for this project.

Commissioner Ogden mentioned the right-in right-out at the high school is not obeyed and he is
concerned with potential conflicts with drivers accessing the property from multiple directions.

Commissioner Squire asked to go back to the height deviation. She asked if there is a graphic
showing how the height is proportioned.

Commissioner Fowler asked about the ingress-egress of the site and the alignment with the one
across the street.

Brien Maxfield, Senior City Engineer stated they are the first development in so they will set the
access point location. He mentioned they had this discussion with the other property owner and
they are aware of this requirement.



                                                2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 18, 2021
Page 3
Chairman Adams invited the applicant to speak.

Corey Middleton with Mint Architecture indicated this property presents a unique opportunity
because on a clear day you can see the Great Salt Lake but due to the elevation of the property the
site sits lower than the property to the rear. The deviation for height shall not have an adverse
effect upon the character of the area or public health and safety. He mentioned the building mass
and scale are much smaller than those around it. He indicated the Pluralsight building is more than
twice the size of his proposed building. Due to the topography of the site, they are placing the
building on the lowest portion of the site. The topography creates challenges. He presented cross
sections of the building to illustrate hardships. The parking structure was placed below grade. He
indicated they are trying to design the building to appear like a 2-1/2 to 3 story building on the
high side and on the north side due to the steep slope the building gains elevations but it does allow
for great views looking north. He stated the building was moved away from Highland which
dropped the building 7-9 feet. They are trying to minimize impacts to the view corridor.

Corey Middleton mentioned the third criteria regarding developing the site within a human scale
is achieved through the architectural detailing on the ground floor. He listed several features
included in the ground level in order to minimize its scale. He stated the detailing of the stepped
heights and the top-level setback help to minimize the appearance of the massing on the building.
He mentioned they are planning to create an engaging roof top environment which will create an
amenity for the building. The wing design of the building helps to pay homage to the flight park
near the property. They have designed the roof to minimize the equipment that will be visible from
surrounding properties. Lastly, he commented the parking structure has been designed to have
minimize visible impact to the site.

Commissioner Hawker asked about the parking structure entrance.

Corey Middleton noted the entrance would be on the west side of the building.

Maryann Pickering, Planner directed the Planning Commission to page seven of the staff report
for deviation criteria.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing. No members of the pubic spoke. He then closed the
public hearing.

Commissioner Squire stated they need to consider impacts the people living around the area and
she is not in favor of the height deviation.

Chair Adams asked for clarification on which residents would be impacted.

Commissioner Squire responded there are town homes nearby. She indicated these townhomes sit
lower than the site.

Commissioner Ogden asked for clarification on how height is measured.




                                                  3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 18, 2021
Page 4
Maryann Pickering, Planner commented it is from average grade of the building once the site is
constructed.

Chair Adams asked if there is another development being constructed between the Chandler
Townhomes and the proposed site. It was mentioned the rezoning was not approved. He indicated
the site will be developed in the future and may have a height up to 45 feet. He mentioned the
building is good looking and the height is deceiving due to the design.

Corey Middleton stated that they could move the building closer to Highland Drive and they would
lose the benefit of the lower slope. He mentioned the location of the building as proposed is a best-
case scenario. The closer they build toward Highland the more impact to the view corridor will
occur.

Commissioner Squire asked for the height difference is from Highland Drive and the building
location.

Corey Middleton stated it is 7-9 feet. He presented a cross section showing this difference.

Commissioner Squire indicated the comment regarding moving the building closer to Highland
Drive if they don’t get the deviation as the only alternative seems like a false narrative.

Chair Adams commented that the report spells out the criteria and it appears the proposal is the
best alternative.

Commissioner Fowler asked if they have a client that will manage the event center as this element
makes the building higher.

Commissioner Hawker cautioned to not put their personal views on what should go in. He
indicated that if the building does not pencil for the applicant economically, they could change it
to push the building further to Highland.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to approve deviation for increased height, as
requested by Greg Goffin of Thrive Corp, representing Joseph Sorenson property owner for
the Highpointe Center, Application SPR-102-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the staff report, dated November 9, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Hawker.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-1 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Van Hoff, Ogden, and Fowler voted “Aye” and Commissioner
Squire voted “No.”

Motion: Commissioner Ogden motioned to approve the site plan, as requested by Greg
Goffin of Thrive Corp, representing Joseph Sorenson property owner for the Highpointe
Center, Application SPR-102-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the staff report, dated November 9, 2021.


                                                 4
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 18, 2021
Page 5

Second: Commissioner Hawker

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-1 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Van Hoff, Ogden, and Fowler voted “Aye”. Commissioner Squire
voted “No.”

Motion: Commissioner Van Hoff motioned to approve the minor subdivision, as requested
by Greg Goffin of Thrive Corp, representing Joseph Sorenson property owner for the
Highpointe Center, Application SUBD-103-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the staff report, dated November 9, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Hawker

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Van Hoff, Squire, Ogden, and Fowler voted “Aye”.

4.     Public Hearing: Dana Plat Amendment Request (Administrative Action)

On the request of Don Hamel, for a Plat Amendment on 0.50 acres of property located at 1543
East Conrads View Lane. Application SUBD-0143-2021. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky,
801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager presented the staff report. She mentioned Conrad View
Lane is located off Boulder Street, north of 13200 South. The Land Use Map designates the
property as Residential Low-Medium Density and zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting to
modify an easement on the plat. The existing plat contains a storm retention easement along the
rear of the lot. It is 15 wide and 120 feet long. The applicant would like to modify the storm drain
system and modify the easement to only 10 feet wide and 146 feet long.

Commissioner Hawker asked if this will cause pooling if lot two has a longer easement and lot one
is modified.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager indicated that it would not as each lot has its own retention
system.

Commissioner Squire asked if the easement width matters.

Brien Maxfield, Senior City Engineer mentioned applicants are required to design a system to meet
their site needs and the easement dimensions are based on the proposed design. Some systems are
broader and not as deep while others are deeper and more concentrated.

Don Hamel, applicant presented there are two easements, a 10-foot public utility easement and a
15 foot for retention. The swale on the plans are only 11 feet wide. He would like to consolidate
the two easements to a 10-foot area.



                                                 5
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 18, 2021
Page 6
Chairman Adams opened the public hearing. There were no comments. Chairman Adams closed
the public hearing.

Commissioner Hawker stated that he has no issues.

Motion: Commissioner Hawker motioned to approve the plat amendment as requested by
Don Hamel for Dana Plat Amendment, Application SubD-0143-2021, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated November 10, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Fowler

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Fowler, Ogden and Van Hoff voted, “Aye”.

5.     Public Hearing: 1521 E. Pioneer Rd. Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Item)

On the request of Andrea Wright representing Cortney and Cary Nelson, a Zoning Map
Amendment request to rezone the property from the RA1 zone to the R3 zone, approximately 0.86
acres, located at approximately 1521 E. Pioneer Rd., Application TEXTMAP-0163-2021, Staff
Contact: Todd Draper, (801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Todd Draper, Planner stated this is a rezone request for 1521 E. Pioneer Road. The property is
currently zoned RA1 and they are requesting a rezone to R3 Residential Zoning. The property is
designated in the land use map as Residential Medium Density which is compatible with R2, R3
and R4 Districts. Most of the surrounding area is zoned RA2. He mentioned there are properties
zoned commercial, A5 and R3 in the area. The applicant is intending to subdivide the property into
two lots. He showed site photos of the property. A home is located on the front of the property.
ROW is located on the side of the property leading to a residential facility for the disabled located
to the north. A horse pasture is located where the additional lot is being proposed. No comments
have been received by the public.

Commissioner Fowler inquired why they are not applying for RA2.

Todd Draper, Planner stated that the lots would be two small. The R3 permits a subdivision into
two lots.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager mentioned the two lots would be around 18,000 sf each.

Chair Adams invited the applicant to speak.

Andrea Wright, applicant indicated she would like to subdivide the front home onto a .36-acre
parcel and the rear lot would be approximately ½ acre for a home for themselves.

Chair Adams opened public comment.




                                                 6
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 18, 2021
Page 7
Susan Morley, 1567 E. Pioneer Road, stated she is a long time Draper resident. She is concerned
that the traffic conditions on Pioneer Road. Traffic is very fast on the road. The development would
add more traffic to the street. She shared a story of two kids crossing the road on bikes which
created a dangerous situation. She does not want her property values to decrease.

Commissioner Hawker stated he does not have an issue with the request because the density is
similar to an RA2 as opposed to an R3. He asked if there is anything they can do to dissuade future
owners from rezoning their property to R3.

Todd Draper, Planner, mentioned the Land Use Map lists the area north of Pioneer as residential
medium density which support R3 and R4. He commented they could recommend to the council
to change the land use map. The two lots to the east are less than ½ acre.

Commissioner Fowler mentioned they should watch the density in that area moving forward.

Mike Barker, City Attorney stated the city council is authorized to make those legislative
decisions. He mentioned the city council denied a rezone a year ago for a property even though
the surrounding properties had a similar zone. The applicant appealed this decision to the district
court. It was found as long as the council has a reasonable basis for their decision, they are fine.

Commissioner Hawker asked what will occur on Pioneer Road in the future regarding widening
or sidewalks.

Brien Maxfield, Senior City Engineer commented that Pioneer Road is on the city Capital
Improvement Plan Master Transportation plan. Right now, it is not an immediate priority in the
next 2-3 years. The improvements would include widening to three lanes with curb, gutter and
sidewalks.

Commissioner Fowler asked if residents should reach out to Brien’s office if they have road
concerns.

Brien Maxfield, Senior City Engineer stated they have a transportation committee and mentioned
a concern form on the city website residents can submit issues to.

Motion: Commissioner Hawker motioned to forward a positive recommendation to the city
council for the 1521 E. Pioneer Road Zoning Map Amendment as requested by Andrea
Wright representing Cortney and Cary Nelson, Application TEXTMAP-0163-2021, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated November 8,
2021.

Second: Commissioner Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Fowler, Ogden and Van Hoff voted, “Aye”.




                                                 7
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 18, 2021
Page 8
6.     Public Hearing: Meadows of Draper Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment
(Legislative Item)

On the request of Brad Reynolds, representing Brad Reynold Construction, Inc. for a Zoning Map
Amendment from A2 to RM2 and a Land Use Map Amendment from Community Commercial to
Residential High Density on 3.82 acres of property located at 286 West River Chapel Rd.
Applications TEXTMAP-0161-2021 and TEXTMAP-0162-2021. Staff Contact is Jennifer
Jastremsky (801) 576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager presented the staff report. She mentioned that the property
is located on the corner of River Chapel Road and Lone Peak Parkway. The property is designated
Community Commercial in the land use map and the applicant is proposing to change this to
Residential High Density which allows a density of 8-12 units per acre. The property is zoned A2
(Agriculture) and RM2 is being proposed. This zone allows up to 12 units per acre. A concept plan
was provided, showing 39 townhomes, which equates about 10 units per acre.

Commissioner Fowler stated there was a letter submitted regarding traffic concerns. She asked if
there were plans to improve the road.

Brien Maxfield, Senior City Engineer responded they are planning to improve the corridor to
widen the street. He indicated they have widened south of American Preparatory Academy (APA)
and it will continue along 11400 South.

Commissioner Hawker asked if a traffic signal would be added to River Chapel Road.

Brien Maxfield, Senior City Engineer stated they are not planning to do this but a warrant study
would be required to justify this improvement. He is not aware of plans to conduct a warrant study
at this time.

Commissioner Squire asked if they can require a traffic study with the application.

Brien Maxfield, Senior City Engineer indicated they typically do not require this with a rezone.
This development cannot be required to fix the current deficiencies of the road. It would be a
requirement for the city. A five-acre townhome development is typically the baseline for requiring
a traffic study. Due to this being in a sensitive area they can require one.

Commissioner Van Hoff asked if there was a church located west of the property and if churches
are allowed in A2.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager responded that churches are allowed in the A2 district.

Chair Adams invited the applicant to speak.

Tim Soffe of Think Architecture, represented Brad Reynolds mentioned they have watched traffic
balloon in certain areas of the city. He indicated development creates traffic regardless of the use.
He stated the schools impact peak periods. Residential units have about nine trips per day but they


                                                 8
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 18, 2021
Page 9
do not always conflict with peak times. The product will contain attached two-car garages. The
project is effect around 10 units per acre. It is a good transitional use between the church and the
five-acre development to their south. He commented they are planning to install an eight-foot pre-
cast wall on the south boundary. All setbacks are met from the covered patios. He mentioned this
product is very stable.

Chair Adams invited the public to speak.

Sarah, Robles lives adjacent to the site, stated when they bought the home, they knew there was
commercial zoning nearby. They have reinvested in their backyard. She indicated that only a 20-
foot setback is not enough to provide privacy. Traffic is very bad on the adjacent streets. She
mentioned they have witnessed accidents on the street. She believes home values will be affected.

Brooke Rigby at 11637 South Nate Lane, commented she is concerned the higher density will
increase traffic. Widening the road has made it more dangerous for people crossing the street.
There was a fatal auto/pedestrian accident a few years ago.

Beckie Knaub, board member of Sunrise Station HOA, commented they border this community.
She is concerned the product will become a rental trap. She is concerned about the traffic and
would like a landscape barrier with a fence between he projects. She suggested the homes be
moved further away from the boundary. The sidewalk is not being maintained by the city and cars
are lined up on River Chapel Road for the school. She would like a warrant study conducted and
asked how long it would take to complete.

Chair Adams closed the public hearing. He asked when higher density gets constructed, will the
study take into account vacant land.

Brien Maxfield, Senior City Engineer stated traffic studies account for current conditions and soon
to change conditions based on gathered data. A warrant study takes 1-2 months to complete.

Commissioner Hawker asked what uses could be allowed in the CR zone.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager mentioned the CR district is commercial which allows for
office, retail, instructional uses, salons, and automotive uses. She indicated that the subject parcel
is designated as Community Commercial in the land use map. She assumes the property would be
zoned to CR or CC in the future. These are higher intense districts than the one being proposed.
There is a 45-foot height limit in the CR district.

Commissioner Hawker stated that similar communities have CC&Rs that control parking. He
mentioned a worst-case scenario could be a large office building with a lot more traffic. He stated
that the product is good and will increase property values.

Commission Van Hoff stated that staff has already identified the intersections that need to be
maintained to allow people to easily move in and out of developments. Staff is doing what they
can to address issues.



                                                  9
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 18, 2021
Page 10
Commissioner Squire mentioned the project looks good but the street is a mess at no fault of the
applicant. She stated the city needs to address the issues. The 34 units will not overly burden the
road system. She asked for more information regarding property acquisition along the roadway.

Brien Maxfield, Senior City Engineer mentioned there is one owner that controls a significant
portion of the roadway frontage and is not open to selling his property. The city council has not
decided to proceed with condemnation. He clarified that they do try to look at the future for uses
with traffic studies.

Commissioner Hawker asked why the motion is for a land use map amendment as opposed
changing the zoning.

Chair Adams stated there are two items to be addressed, the second is for the zone change.

Commissioner Squire stated if there are measures the city is not enforcing that they could to assist
the situation with APA.

Brien Maxfield, Senior City Engineer replied staff has been out on Lone Peak Parkway to verify
that APA is following their traffic plan for drop off and pick up operations. He isn’t sure if they
are in compliance but staff is working on the problems.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to forward a positive recommendation to the city
council for the land use map amendments as requested by Brad Reynolds representing Brad
Reynolds Construction, Inc. for the Meadows of Draper, Application TEXTMAP-0161-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated November
10, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Van Hoff

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Fowler, Ogden and Van Hoff voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Van Hoff motioned to forward a positive recommendation to the city
council for the zoning map amendment as requested by Brad Reynolds representing Brad
Reynolds Construction, Inc. for the Meadows of Draper, Application TEXTMAP-0162-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated November
10, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Fowler, Ogden and Van Hoff voted, “Aye”.




                                                10
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 18, 2021
Page 11
7.     Discussion Item: Moderate Income Housing Report 2021

An overview of the 2021 Moderate Income Housing Report 2021. Staff Contact is Todd Draper,
(801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Todd Draper, Planner mentioned each year the city is required to report their progress on
implementing the Moderate-Income Housing Plan within the General Plan. There were five
different menu items selected from the General Plan. The first is to consider general fund subsidies
to waive fees that otherwise imposed by the city. There was a fee study completed, but changes
were not made to the fee schedule. The second is to reduce requirements for accessory dwelling
units (ADU). They have updated their code to allow internal ADUs. The third is to encourage
higher density or moderate-income residential development near major transit investment
corridors. The city intends to adopt a station area plan for the Town Center station area. Due to
COVID-19 they had to place this one on hold. The fourth initiative is to partner with an entity to
apply for affordable housing programs administered by the Department of Workforce Services.
The city council does send funds to the Salt Lake County Housing Authority to help with housing
for the homeless and others. The fifth initiative is to apply for or partner with an entity that applies
for programs administered by a metropolitan planning organization or other transportation agency
that provides technical planning assistance. This is tied to their grant that was awarded for the
station area plan. This is on hold while they await a more accurate economic analysis. Public
Works has started on their traffic analysis. The final step is to calculate their five-year needs
estimate but the State calculator is broken and provides the same numbers as were used last year.
He mentioned the city council has accepted the report and it will be submitted by the December
1st deadline.

Commissioner Ogden asked if lowering construction fees will make housing affordable.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager mentioned most affordable housing is found within
apartment units where developers have worked with HUD. Construction fees can make a
difference as thousands of dollars are typically spent on impact and other fees. She mentioned if
they are HUD restricted units the units will have to be rented within amount provided by HUD.

8.     Training

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager indicated they will provide training on site plans, what the
code says, the process and what plans are looked at. She mentioned they will discuss other
drawings staff reviews that the planning commission typically does not see. Site plan application
are covered under DCMC Section 9-5-090. The planning commission reviews site plans for
manufacturing, commercial, institutional uses and multifamily. Other site plans are reviewed by
the zoning administrator. The zoning administrator may approve amendments to site plans. Site
plans for single family residences are approved through building permits. Alteration or expansions
of an approved site plan may be permitted by the zoning administrator.

Commissioner Fowler asked if the zoning administrator can approve site plans for projects where
no deviations are requested. She mentioned that the public believes the commission can make
changes when they cannot.


                                                  11
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 18, 2021
Page 12

Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney commented that state law does not require public
hearings for site plans. Draper goes above and beyond state requirements. There is an expectation
in the public’s mind that changes can be made, but site plans are an administrative action. There
are other cities that permit department directors to approve site plans. He asked what value is there
to have public hearing for site plans.

Commissioner Squire mentioned it provides greater transparency and she believes it is very
important.

Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney indicated there is a consideration that needs to be made
in regards to not being able to do anything to address their concerns. He indicated that cities
approach site plans differently in every jurisdiction.

Commissioner Fowler mentioned she likes to have the planning commission review site plans as
it provides information to the public and they know what is going on in the city.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager mentioned site plans typically take 3-4 months to go
through the process. She explained each step in the review process. Staff will review applications
several times prior to going through the planning commission. She overviewed different parties
that review the applications and indicated if the project is in the Historic District, it also is reviewed
by the historic preservation commission. Every Tuesday they have a design review committee
meeting. This is a free meeting to review proposals prior to formal submittals. Next, they have a
redline return meeting to discuss staff comments. She listed the items required to be submitted
with each site plan applications. Title reports are required to ensure the property is not encumbered.
She presented the Pessoa Dental Office site plan as an example.

She noted this plan had previously been reviewed by the planning commission. She indicated they
look at parking, landscaping and adjacent uses that may need buffering.

Brien Maxfield, Senior City Engineer indicated that engineering looks are ROW widths to
determine if they meet city requires and if infrastructure improvements will be required. There
may be properties requiring dedication of right-of-way. He provided a few examples and indicated
ROW requirements are typically established during the subdivision process. Access points
locations, distance from intersection and circulation are analyzed. Property boundaries are
reviewed to ensure they match what is recorded at the recorder’s office. The number of traffic trips
will be considered to determine if a study is needed.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager mentioned planning also looks at grading. The grading
plan is considered when parking is abutting a roadway. A berm is required to help screen headlights
from projecting onto nearby properties.

Brien Maxfield, Senior City Engineer stated engineering has standards for maximum discharge
rate that may leave the site. They have requirements for low impact development which requires
storm water to be retained on the site rather than entering the city system. The quality of storm
water is considered to eliminate pollutants from the parking lot surface and potential transfers into


                                                   12
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 18, 2021
Page 13
the city system. Storm water is diverted from entering adjacent properties. All projects need a
water and sewer connection at a size to accommodate the intended site use. Pipe capacity and slope
placement are considered. He mentioned the EPA is concerned about erosion. Engineering will
review the erosion plan to prevent sediment, dust and debris from entering the city system. During
construction the plan may be changed to account for changing conditions.

Commissioner Fowler inquired about the meaning of SWPPP.

Brien Maxfield, Senior City Engineer mentioned it stands for Storm Water Pollution Prevention
Plan. He continued that BMP stands for Best Management Practices and he provided examples of
BMPs.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager overviewed elements of Landscape Plans. She stated there
are minimum requirements for the amount of landscaping required for each site. There are
provisions for the number of trees, shrubs on property lines and within the site. If sites are adjacent
to residential, there are additional standards. Engineering will ensure site distances are preserved.
Irrigation plans are required. There are not many standards in the zoning code for irrigation. The
irrigation plan helps the city to ensure landscaping will remain alive.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager overviewed elevation plans and pointed out several aspects
considered by staff like building height, roof line variations, building materials, screening of
dumpsters, and architecture standards. Three colors are required per building. Photometric plans
are reviewed to ensure light pollution does disturb surrounding properties. They look at the height
of poles and foot candles levels. Engineering will review street lights within the ROW and on
private streets.

Brien Maxfield, Senior City Engineer mentioned will serve letters are required from utility
providers to ensure they are able to properly service the project. The EPA requires cities to
regularly sweep streets. A maintenance agreement is established with each property owner to
ensure the systems are regularly maintained. He mentioned impact fees are based on master plans.
Site review typically involve other agencies like UDOT, Army Corp of Engineers, Flood Control
and others.

Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney stated there are times when legal will have comments
on staff reports. He mentioned a case where the building department wanted the applicant to
guarantee no alcohol sales would occur on the third floor of a building and he was unable to sign
it because it violated state code. They look at common deviation requested for from standards of
the code. The Planning Commission may determine if the deviation is warranted or not. He listed
several options the Planning Commission may take regarding their decision on site plans.

He overviewed appeals and indicated if a Planning Commission makes a statement, it will be on
the record and will become evidence. It is easy for cities to win appeals on site plans. He mentioned
the planning commission plays an important role in winning an appeal. Any adversely affected
party may submit an appeal. The applicant and citizens may appeal a denial. The appeals and
variance hearing officer may only hear evidence on the record. He described the substantial
evidence standard the appeals officer will use in their determination. He described a recent appeal


                                                  13
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
November 18, 2021
Page 14
on Quality Diamond and indicated the reason for the denial was regarding a fork lift and large
trucks entering the site. These are not elements typically allowed in residential districts. The
hearing officer upheld the Planning Commission’s decision.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager indicated the staff report has model motions for approval,
approval with conditions and denial. Findings are also provided in the staff report and are taken
from the city code.

Chair Adams asked if someone could appeal an approved application.

Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney replied this can happen but it needs to be someone that
is directly impacted by the approval.

Chair Adams asked for a motion to adjourn.

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to adjourn.

Second: Commissioner Fowler

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Fowler, Ogden and Van Hoff voted, “Aye”.

Meeting adjourned 9:22 p.m.




                                               14
