Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: July 14, 2022
Re: Fitzgerald Property – Development Agreement, Zoning Map and Land Use Map Amendments Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Development Agreement, Zoning Map, and Land Use Map Amendment for approximately 22.37 acres located on the south side of Pioneer Rd., at approximately 1060 East Pioneer Rd. The property is currently zoned TC, RA1, and RA2 . The applicant is requesting that a Development Agreement, Zoning Map, and Land Use Map Amendments be approved to allow for the development of a single-family residential neighborhood.
The property owners applied for a Development Agreement, Zoning Map, and Land Use Map Amendments in 2021. That proposal was for a larger 27.37 acre piece of property and included requests for the TC (Town Center), RM2 (Multi-family Residential, up to 12 dwelling units per acre), and R4 (Single-family Residential, 10,000 square foot lots) zones. That application was put on hold by the property owner in January 2022 and was not heard in public hearing.
Since the original application was placed on hold, the city and the property owners have come to an agreement, wherein the City will purchase 5 acres of land along Pioneer Road, subject to the City rezoning the remainder of the property to allow for 59 single family residential lots with at least 9,000 square feet in size and an additional 3 single family residential lot with at least 20,000 square feet in size. A Notice of Intent to Purchase was approved by the Draper City Council on June 7, 2022 The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed zoning map amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed zoning map amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6.   The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
7.   The proposed development agreement complies DCMC Section 9-5-200(C) and (D).
8.   The proposal complies with the Notice of Intent to Purchase approved by the City Council on June 7, 2022.
For denial:
1.   The proposed zoning map amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed zoning map amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed zoning map amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
4.   There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 7/7/2022 Cover Memo