Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: December 8, 2022
Re: Draper Frontrunner Apartments Comments: This application is a request for approval of an amendment to an existing Master Area Plan (MAP) for approximately 0.72 acres located on the east side of Frontrunner Boulevard.  The property is currently zoned TSD .  The applicant is requesting that a MAP Amendment be approved to transfer residential units from the TSD-2 intensity area to the TSD-1 intensity area.  The total number of units in the master plan will not be increased with this change.
The original MAP for Vista Station was approved by the City Council on January 8, 2013.  This master plan broke the property up into development areas, TSD-1, TSD-2, and TSD-3. Overall the plan approved 1,923 residential units, 1,867,141 square feet of office space, and 216,859 square feet of retail space.  Twenty percent of the area, including the Ebay facility and UTA Frontrunner station was anticipated to be residential uses.  In addition to the square footage to be built, the plan included a variety of public open spaces throughout the MAP. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.  The proposal complies with all of the required elements under DCMC Section 9-14-060.
2.  The master circulation plan adequately serves the MAP area and areas surrounding the project.
3.  The MAP provides for a community character substantially consistent with the purposes of the TSD, including the provision for at least twenty five percent (25%) commercial, retail, or office uses.
4.  The development standards and design guidelines are high quality transit oriented design standards, including the use of high quality building materials.
For denial:
1.   The proposal does not comply with all of the required elements under DCMC Section 9-14-060.
2.  The master circulation plan is not adequate to serve the MAP area and areas surrounding the project.
3.  The MAP does not provide for a community character substantially consistent with the purposes of the TSD, including the provision for at least twenty five percent (25%) commercial, retail, or office uses.
4.  The development standards and design guidelines are not high quality transit oriented design standards, including the use of high quality building materials. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 11/30/2022 Backup Material