                               RESOLUTION NO. 22-15

      A RESOLUTION OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL AMENDING SECTION
      8040 OF THE PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MANUAL
      REGARDING HOLIDAYS

       WHEREAS, The City Council reviews and adopts policies and procedures to
assist in the efficient utilization of City resources and the fair and uniform
application of requirements and benefits to City employees; and

      WHEREAS, The City Council has reviewed Policy 8040 of the Personnel Policies
and Procedures Manual and has determined a need to amend the Holiday Policy;
and

      WHEREAS, The City Council believes this amendment is in the best interest of
the employees of Draper City.



      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

      Section 1. Amendment. The Draper City Council does hereby adopt the
amendments to Policy 8040 of the Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual as
attached hereto as Exhibit “A.”

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is
held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any
other portion of this Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this
Resolution shall be severable.

     Section 3. Effective Date.      This    Resolution    shall   become     effective
immediately upon its passage.

     PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, THIS THE 12TH DAY OF APRIL, 2022.
                                     DRAPER CITY

ATTEST:                              By: ________________________________
                                        Troy K. Walker, Mayor



Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder



VOTE TAKEN:                              YES                   NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember T. Lowery

Councilmember F. Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker
                                   EXHIBIT “A”

                             Section 8040 - HOLIDAYS
                              (Amended 04/12/2022)

General Policy Statement:

   Eligible full-time employees will receive holiday pay according to the guidelines
established in this policy.

   1.    Schedule: The City Council has approved the following holidays.

         New Year’s Day                January 1
         Martin Luther King Day        3rd Monday in
         January President’s Day       3rd Monday in
         February
         Memorial Day                  Last Monday in May
         Juneteenth                    June 19
         Independence Day              July 4
         Pioneer Day                   July 24
         Labor Day                     1st Monday in September
         Columbus Day                  2nd Monday in October
         Veteran’s Day                 November 11
         Thanksgiving                  4th Thursday and Friday in November
         Christmas Eve                 December 24
         Christmas Day                 December 25

   A) To be eligible for holiday pay, an employee must work (or be on
      approved vacation leave or other permitted leave in an active pay
      status) the last scheduled day immediately before the holiday and the
      first scheduled day immediately after it.

   B) Holiday pay will not be approved when:

         1) It is the employee’s first or last day of employment

         2) The employee is scheduled to work and is absent without excuse

         3) The employee is not in active pay status (e.g., is on unpaid leave,
            Workers’ Compensation leave, or lay-off) or employment is on a
            temporary basis


   2. Holiday pay will be calculated based upon an eight-hour workday using the
      employee’s base rate of pay. Holidays are considered as hours worked for
   overtime purposes. However, any extra or on-call hours worked during the
   week of a holiday must be pre-approved by a supervisor. Draper City police
   officers and firefighters are an exception and will follow their current
   department policy with regard to holidays. Where a holiday falls on a
   weekend, it may be observed on either the Friday before or the Monday
   after the holiday as scheduled by the city manager. Holiday leave may not
   be used prior to the pay period in which the holiday occurs, except for sworn
   police officers and firefighters authorized to use holiday hours on a calendar year
   basis.

3. Employees on an approved alternate schedule must work additional hours
   or use additional hours of vacation or comp time, during the same
   workweek for each holiday used to balance their hours to forty.

4. When a City holiday falls during an employee’s scheduled vacation, it
   will not be counted as a vacation day.


5. Police and Fire may be regularly scheduled to work on a holiday. For this
   reason, Police and Fire employees will receive a bank of holiday time at the
   beginning of each calendar year. When scheduling time off, it is required
   that Police and Fire employees use all accrued holiday leave before using
   accrued vacation leave. There is no carryover of holiday hours. All holiday
   hours must be used within the same calendar year. In the event that an
   employee terminates employment and they have used more holiday leave
   than holidays that have actually occurred, they will be required to reimburse
   those holiday hours.
