                            Development Review Committee
                                 1020 East Pioneer Road
                                   Draper, Utah 84020


                                          STAFF REPORT
                                        September 23, 2022

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: October 27, 2022

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By:            Jonathan Concidine, Planner
                        Planning Division
                        Community Development Department
                        801-576-6522, j.concidine@draperutah.gov

Re: Kathryn’s Catering – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
Request
     Application No.: USE-165-2022
     Applicant:        Kathryn Myers, representing Kathryn’s Catering
     Project Location: 1119 East Lone Peak Lane
     Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 sq. ft. min. lot size)
                       Zone
     Acreage:          0.74 Acres (Approximately 32,000 ft2)
     Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                       Permit in the RA1 zone.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit for approximately 0.74 acres located on the east side of 1100 East, at 1119
East Lone Peak Lane (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned RA1. The
applicant is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved
to allow for the operation of a home catering business.

The home was built in 2003. It is Lot No. 7-N of the Corner Canyon Estates
subdivision. The plat was recorded in 1993.


ANALYSIS




Kathryn’s Catering
App. # USE-165-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   1
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                  General Plan and Zoning Designations        Exhibit
 Existing Land            Residential Low/Medium Density              Exhibit D
 Use
 Current Zoning           RA1                                         Exhibit E
 Proposed Use             Single Family Residence
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                  RA1
    West                  RA1
    North                 RA1
    South                 RA1

The Residential Low/Medium Density land use designation is characterized as
follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of


Kathryn’s Catering
App. # USE-165-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
the RA1 zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on its
surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
City’s semi-rural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-
lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The
predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings,
protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”

Home Occupation.

Customers call to request catering for an event. The food is prepared in a
commercial kitchen located in the property and transported to the location of the
event. There are no customers at the property. The applicant’s personal vehicle is
used to transport the food. Catering events occur 4-5 times per month.

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request,
are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a
           person who resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located.
           Such person shall be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service
           provided in the home occupation.
              a. Applicant owns the home.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be
           obtained from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6,
           chapter 11 of this code.
              a. Applicant will obtain a business license.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the
           dwelling may be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or
           nonresident employees shall be limited to one person.
              a. Employees will be family members.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing,
           electrical and all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections
           during reasonable hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure
           compliance with regulations.
              a. Facilities will comply with code.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed
           two hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No
           outside storage is allowed.
              a. Inventory will not exceed 250 sq. ft.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence
           from the exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose
           than that of a dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the



Kathryn’s Catering
App. # USE-165-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   3
            dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home
            occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking required
            for a home occupation.
                a. Structures and yards will not be modified.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the
           dwelling which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor,
           smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
              a. Home occupation will not cause a nuisance.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and
           secondary to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The
           home occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
           neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
           percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.
              a. Home occupation is the secondary use. Less than 25% of the house
                 will be used for the home occupation.

        I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26,
           "Signs", of this title.
              a. Signs will comply with the DCMC.

        J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate
           pedestrian, parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily
           associated with the zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be
           provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for drop off
           traffic.
               a. Minimal traffic impacts are anticipated.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there
           shall be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the
           home occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No
           signage for the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.
              a. No vehicles associated with the home occupation will be found on
                  the property.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not
           be used for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the
           home occupation.
              a. Yards will not be used for the home occupation.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare
           or limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
               a. No customers will visit the home.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
           utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for
           residential uses.



Kathryn’s Catering
App. # USE-165-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   4
                a. The home occupation will not require excessive utility demand.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.
              a. The home occupation will occur within the primary structure.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
           permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-
           family or a multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within
           this section and section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within
           multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from the
           respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case
           of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or
           business vehicles.
               a. Home occupation will take place in a single-family dwelling.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
           applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential
           childcare, including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care
           licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et
           seq., as amended, and the residential certificate childcare standards as
           set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as
           amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated
           and inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related
           home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with these
           regulations.
               a. No licenses are required.

Criteria For Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is
found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the
           issuance of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a
           zone where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use
           regulations of the zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially
           mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
           These conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction,
           character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation,
           and other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section.
           Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the
           conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional
           use cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable



Kathryn’s Catering
App. # USE-165-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
           conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
           conditional use may be denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining
           whether a conditional use permit application should be approved,
           approved with conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot
           be imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
            a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
               and requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
            b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
            c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or
               existing development in the vicinity;
            d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
               surrounding area;
            e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
               surrounding area;
            f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
               transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
               screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian
               and vehicular circulation;
            g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
               emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
               proposed facility or use; and
            h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
               welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in
               the area.
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
           reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this
           subsection E can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their
review of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from
this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and
Public Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their
review of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from
this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division,
if any, can be found in Exhibit A.



Kathryn’s Catering
App. # USE-165-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and
State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the
Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and approve the
application based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, as listed
within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they
include the following condition of approval:

        1.      Unless there is substantial action under a conditional use permit within
                one year from the date of its issuance, said permit shall expire and
                shall have no further force or effect. A written request may be
                submitted to the Community Development Department prior to
                expiration of the conditional use permit for an extension of up to six
                (6) months, subject to approval of the Planning Commission, provided
                substantial action is shown toward establishing the conditional use and
                the requirements for extension under Section 9-5-030 of this chapter
                are met.


The findings for approval as are follows:

     1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
        alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.
     2. The proposed use is harmonious with the objectives and requirements of the
        city's general plan and this title;
     3. The specific property is appropriate for the proposed use;
     4. The proposed use or facility is unlikely to be injurious to potential or existing
        development in the vicinity;
     5. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area
        is beneficial;
     6. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area
        is negligible;
     7. The utilities, transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space,
        lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian
        and vehicular circulation are adequate;
     8. Noxious or offensive emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and
        odor from the proposed facility or use are unlikely; and
     9. The health, safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or
        leasing property in the area will be unaffected.

The findings for denial as are follows:



Kathryn’s Catering
App. # USE-165-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
        1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use
           to alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.
        2. The proposed use is not harmonious with the objectives and requirements
           of the city's general plan and this title;
        3. The specific property is inappropriate for the proposed use;
        4. The proposed use or facility is likely to be injurious to potential or existing
           development in the vicinity;
        5. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
           area is negative;
        6. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
           area is negative;
        7. The utilities, transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space,
           lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and
           pedestrian and vehicular circulation are inadequate;
        8. Noxious or offensive emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and
           odor from the proposed facility or use are likely; and
        9. The health, safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning
           or leasing property in the area will be negatively affected.


MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Kathryn’s Catering Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Kathryn Myers, representing
Kathryn’s Catering, application USE-165-2022, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 23, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Kathryn’s
Catering Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Kathryn Myers,
representing Kathryn’s Catering, application USE-165-2022, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 23, 2022
and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Kathryn’s Catering Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Kathryn Myers, representing
Kathryn’s Catering, application USE-165-2022, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 23, 2022.




Kathryn’s Catering
App. # USE-165-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
                                EXHIBIT A
                           DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE
COMMENTS OR CONDITIONS.


No outstanding comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
