                                    ORDINANCE NO. 1515


       AN ORDINANCE OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL INCORPORATING
        MINOR TEXT AMMENDMENTS AND ADITIONS TO CHAPTER 15-4,
                           SPECIAL EVENTS


     WHEREAS, the chapter regulating Special Events is in need of minor additions and
amendments; and,

       WHEREAS, Draper City’s parks, trails and recreation facilities have grown in number
and increased substantially in use, it has become necessary to incorporate code changes dealing
with special event procedures, permitting and allowances.

        WHEREAS,; Draper City desires to keep the best interest and protection of all parks, trails,
recreation facilities and residents as a high priority and importance,

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER
CITY, STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.     Approval. The City Council hereby approves Ordinance No. 1515,
approving the text amendments to Chapter 15-4 regarding Special Events.

        Section 2.   Correction of Editing Errors. The City Attorney is authorized to correct
any punctuation, spelling, formatting, or similar errors prior to submitting this Ordinance to
Sterling Codifiers

        Section 3.     Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid, or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of
this Ordinance, and all sections, parts, and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable..

       Section 4.     Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final
passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, ON THE _____ DAY OF JANUARY, 2022.

                                                     DRAPER CITY


                                                     _____________________________
                                                     Mayor Troy K. Walker
ATTEST:


____________________________
City Recorder




VOTE TAKEN:                    YES   NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember Lowery

Councilmember Roberts

Councilmember Vawdrey

Councilmember Lowry

Mayor Walker
CHAPTER 4
SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
15-4-010: Purpose
15-4-020: Scope
15-4-030: Definitions
15-4-040: Special Event Permits
15-4-050: Special Events Allowed
15-4-060: Application And Standards For Special Events
15-4-070: Special Events On Vacant Properties
15-4-080: City Support Services
15-4-090: Conditions Of Issuance
15-4-100: Grounds For Denial
15-4-110: Enforcement And Penalties
15-4-120: Revocation Of Special Event Permit
15-4-130: Delegation Of Director's Authority

15-4-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish permit requirements for special events. The permit
requirements and other regulations in this chapter are designed to promote, protect and assure
the safety and convenience of residents and visitors by mitigating potential issues that may
occur as a result of the special event. It is not the intent of this chapter to regulate in any
manner the content of speech or infringe upon the right to assemble, except for lawful time,
place and manner regulations necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord.
1354, 9-18-2018)

15-4-020: SCOPE:
This chapter imposes regulatory requirements on certain activities that are defined as "special
events". The requirements imposed by this chapter do not alter, supersede or nullify any
requirements contained in other Federal, State or local statutes, ordinances, or regulations that
may also regulate special events. These requirements shall be applied in a content neutral
manner and without discrimination as to race, sex, national origin, political affiliation, or other
unlawful discriminatory classification. (Ord. 1354, 9-18-2018)

15-4-030: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: Any person or organization that seeks a special event permit from the City to
conduct a special event governed by this Chapter.
ATHLETIC EVENT: An organized competitive or recreational event in which a group of people
collectively engage in a sport or form of physical exercise, including, but not limited to, running,
jogging, walking, bicycling, or skating, on any City street or sidewalk or other City property.
BLOCK PARTY: An outdoor party put on by residents of a neighborhood that requires closing
down a City street, sidewalk, or other City property.
CITY EVENT: A special event that is organized and operated by the City, whether directly or by
contract with a third party operator.
ENTERTAINMENT EVENT: An organized event having its primary purpose the entertainment or
amusement of a group of people, including, but not limited to, parades, festivals, carnivals,
fairs, concerts, or similar activities on any City street or sidewalk or other City property.
FILMING EVENT: Filming of a media broadcast (other than for news purposes), filming of a
motion picture or television broadcast, or still commercial photography, in any case involving
more than four (4) human participants.
LARGE SCALE EVENT: A special event, not sponsored by the City, with an estimated combined
attendance of five hundred (500) or more participants and spectators.
OUTDOOR SALES EVENT: An organized event in which a group of people or an organization
engages in the sale of products including, but not limited to, displays and exhibitions, farmers'
markets, craft fairs, outdoor sales, tent sales and other similar activities.
PERSON: Includes an individual, corporation, partnership, association, or other entity whether
public or private.
POLITICAL EVENT: An organized event involving the preplanned participation of more than fifty
(50) people, not including an athletic or entertainment event, having as its primary purpose the
exercise of expressive activities of a political nature, including, but not limited to,
speechmaking, picketing, protesting, marching, demonstrating or debating public issues, on any
City street or sidewalk or other City property.
PUBLIC FORUM: City roads, sidewalks, rights-of-way and City property that has by tradition
been used by the public for assembly and expression, or City property that has not traditionally
been open for public assembly and debate but that the City has opened for use by the public as
a place for assembly and expression.
SPECIAL EVENT: Any athletic event, City event, entertainment event, filming event, large scale
event, block party, political event, or outdoor sales event, whether held for profit, nonprofit or
charitable purposes held on private or public property within the City.
SPONTANEOUS EVENT: A special event that is occasioned by news or affairs coming into public
knowledge fewer than fourteen (14) days before the special event. (Ord. 1354, 9-18-2018)

15-4-040: SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS:
A. Permit Required: It is unlawful
1. To hold a special event without first obtaining a special event permit unless otherwise
excepted by 15-4-040(B);
2. To hold a special event not in accordance with an issued special event permit; or
 3. To hold a special event that fails to comply with all other City ordinances, including, but not
limited to, obtaining a single event business license, if applicable.
B. Exceptions: A special event permit shall not be required for the following events. However,
any event exempted herein from the provisions of this chapter may request the assistance
provided through the permitting process by submitting a complete application, including
payment of all necessary fees, for a special event permit.
1. Gatherings, demonstrations, or protests of fifty (50) or fewer people who gather at a public
forum to exercise their constitutionally protected rights under the First Amendment of the
United States Constitution.
2. Spontaneous events held at a public forum.
3. Use of sidewalks, trails, or other pedestrian pathways not associated with a special event
and which do not require the use of Draper City public safety personnel.
4. Activities or events within a permanent structure or on a site for which the permanent
structure or site was specifically designed, including, but not limited to:
a. School sports, activities or events, on school property, regardless of public or private
schools, sponsored or sanctioned by the Utah High School Activities Association (UHSAA) or the
school district in which the school is located;
b. Meetings or gatherings as a part of the normal course of business;
c. On site school programs or activities for the attendance of students, relatives, and guests
which are not of a money raising nature; or
d. Activities, gatherings, or events for religious groups that fully comply with subsection B5 of
this section.
5. Events or activities that fully comply with all of the following:
a. The event or activity is completely contained on private property for which the property
owner has given permission for the event or activity;
b. Attendance at the event or activity does not exceed the determined capacity for any
building in which the event or activity will be held;
c. No public services such as police, fire, or ambulance, are anticipated to be needed on site
for the event, whether for traffic control, on standby, or for security at the site;
d. Adequate restroom facilities are readily available on the site for attendees at the event or
activity;
e. Sales of alcohol will not be conducted as a part of the event;
f. Traffic, crowd, or parking control is not needed to accommodate attendees;
g. No vendors profiting separately from the overall event are within, a part of, or associated
with the event; and
h. Special event signs as described in subsection 9-26-080B of this Code are not needed.
6. An amateur or not for profit filming event not intended for public release and does not
disrupt the general operation of a public park, street or facility. (Ord. 1354, 9-18-2018)

15-4-050: SPECIAL EVENTS ALLOWED:
Any person may sponsor or conduct special events. The special events listed in this section will
be allowed up to the time limits specified for each event and are subject to the terms of this
chapter. Unless otherwise specified herein, occurrences shall be counted based on the
applicant or location of the event, whichever is greater.
A. A multiday athletic event, entertainment event, outdoor sales event, or filming event may
be conducted for up to eight (8) days per occurrence with a maximum of four (4) occurrences
per year. Vendors operating booths, displays, demonstrations, or services as a part of these
events will be considered permitted as a part of the permit for the entire event, but necessitate
independent business licensure, as required by this title.
B. A single day athletic event, entertainment event, block party, outdoor sales event, or filming
event may be conducted for up to one day per occurrence with a maximum of four (4)
occurrences per year.
C. A person or entity is restricted to four special events per calendar year and no more than
one special event within a three-month period.
D. Off site motorized vehicle sales conducted by a licensed dealer on private property may be
held for up to twenty one (21) days per occurrence with not more than three (3) occurrences per
year.
E. The launching of fireworks displays may be conducted during times permitted under State
law. Fireworks displays are subject to the approval and requirements of all appropriate fire
agencies. The launching of fireworks displays may also be subject to location restrictions of the
City and all appropriate fire agencies.
F. Auctions with outside storage, screened from view from any adjacent street by a six foot (6')
sight obscuring fence, may be conducted for up to three (3) days per occurrence with no more
than four (4) occurrences per year per site. Up to two (2) occurrences may run consecutively,
when applied for as such, but shall be counted as separate occurrences.
G. Large scale events in Draper Park shall be limited to no more than three (3) events per
calendar year regardless of the number of applicants.
H. Only City-sponsored events may be held on any City trail appearing on Figure 15-4-1.
 (Ord. 1354, 9-18-2018)




15-4-060: APPLICATION AND STANDARDS FOR SPECIAL EVENTS:
A person seeking a special event permit shall submit an application to the City on forms
provided by the City. The application shall be filed not less than forty five (45) and not more
than three hundred sixty five (365) days before the activity is proposed to commence. Any
application for a filming event permit shall be submitted no later than four (4) business days
before the filming event is scheduled to occur The application is not consider filed until the
Special Event Permit Application has been received, an application fee has been paid, and
complete plans have been received.
A. Application And Processing Fees: Application and processing fees, as determined in section
5-4-010 of this Code, shall be paid to the City by the applicant when the application is filed with
the department in order to cover the administrative costs of processing the permit application.
B. Late Notification Fee: Any applicant for a special event permit (except applicants for filming
events) who fails to give at least forty five (45) days' notice to the City before the activity is
proposed to commence shall remit to the City a late notification fee of forty dollars ($40.00) in
addition to the application and processing fee.
C. Complete Copy Of Application: The application for any special event requiring a mass
gathering permit pursuant to Salt Lake Valley Health Department regulations must include a
complete copy of their required application.
D. Access: Specific areas shall be designated for ingress and egress of emergency vehicles,
including appropriate barriers to regulate vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
E. Plans: The following plans must be submitted with the application for a special event
permit:
1. Site Plan: The site plan shall depict the proposed layout of the entire property to be used for
the special event. This site plan must include the exact address of the property, the name and
address of the property owner, and the name and twenty four (24) hour contact information of
the contact person or coordinator. The site plan must clearly show all entrances, exits,
roadways, walkways and parking, all sanitation facilities, medical and first aid stations, waste
containers, food stands, vendor areas, lighting, types of merchandise being sold, types of food
being prepared/sold, alcohol sales, types of live entertainment, sound systems, temporary
structures, temporary and permanent power sources, amusement rides, and all other activities
associated with the event.
2. Control Plan: A plan shall be submitted and approved establishing adequate provisions for
traffic, crowd, and patron control and assurance of compliance with City, State, and Federal
laws including, but not limited to, fire, health, security, and Americans With Disability Act
regulations. Only Draper City public safety personnel shall be used for traffic control on Draper
City streets, trails, or sidewalks for special events. No more than two (2) special events per
calendar month shall be allowed when public safety personnel such as police, fire, or
ambulance services are necessary. No special events requiring public safety personnel shall be
allowed in the month of July, except for events associated with Draper Days. Exceptions may be
made by the City Council.
3. Sign Plan: Applicants shall provide a plan showing the location of all signs to be placed in
association with the event. The sign plan must include the total number of signs with the
dimensions and size of each sign. All signs must meet the requirements of title 9, chapter 26 of
this Code.
4. Security Plan: A security plan shall be submitted to and approved by the City establishing
the number and type of enforcement and security personnel needed to monitor and facilitate
the event and provide spectator or participant control and direction.
5. Parking Plan: A parking plan shall be submitted to and approved by the City identifying areas
for parking in a capacity to accommodate the reasonably expected attendance at the event.
Parking areas shall meet all requirements and specifications of the Fire Department. If parking
spaces are not marked, parking personnel must be provided to ensure orderly and safe ingress
and egress from the parking area.
F. Emergency Services: First aid supplies, equipment, and emergency medical services must be
made available to meet public health and safety concerns and legal requirements.
G. Sanitation Facilities: Adequate sanitation facilities shall be provided based on the duration
of the event and on the number of persons reasonably expected to participate.
H. Trash Removal: All trash shall be removed and the site restored to the condition the
property was in prior to the event before the applicant or event sponsors leave the site. All
trash must be disposed of properly and any equipment used returned to its designated
location. It is the sole responsibility of the event organizers to provide appropriate means of
trash disposal and site cleanup.
I. Events On Public Property: With proper authorization from appropriate City departments,
special events may be held in public places or on City owned property. Events on public
property must end by ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on any given day unless an extension of time is
granted by the Parks and Recreation Director. A written request to the Parks and Recreation
Director must be submitted with detailed information as to the need to extend the end time of
an event. This approval must be completed before a special event permit is issued.
J. Events On Private Property: Special events are allowed on private property with the
property owner's written approval. Notification of the event taking place shall be issued to all
adjacent property owners prior to the event. Events on private property may not exceed hours
of operation as dictated in the City's nuisance ordinances.
K. Insurance: Applicants for a special event permit must provide liability insurance to ensure
the health and safety of the public. Mandatory Comprehensive General/Special Events liability
insurance with a minimum two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) per occurrence, with three
million dollars ($3,000,000.00) general aggregate coverage will be required prior to the
issuance of a special event permit, unless the Risk Manager requires a higher or lower level
based on level of risk. The liability insurance must also name the City as an additional insured by
endorsement. Applicants must submit a Certificate of Insurance and an actual copy of the
additional-insured endorsement. The Certificate of Insurance and endorsement must be
submitted at least seven business days prior to the proposed special event date.
1. The following special events shall be exempt from the insurance requirement:
a. Political events, unless the event will include fireworks or other similarly hazardous features.
b. School events located on, or directly adjacent to, school property;
c. Events sponsored in whole by the City; and
d. Block parties.
2. In consideration for the issuing of a special events permit and use of City streets and
sidewalks or City property, the applicant agrees to indemnify, save harmless and defend the
City, its officers and employees, against any claim for loss, damage or expense sustained by any
person on account of injury, death or property damage occurring by reason of or arising out of
the special event.
L. Performance Bond: The City may require the applicant or sponsor of a special event, in
addition to the aforementioned liability coverage, to protect the City's interests with a
performance bond in a form and amount as determined by the City Parks and Recreation
Director.
M. Inspections: Authorized Law Enforcement Officers, Code Compliance and Zoning
Enforcement Officers, Fire Control Officers, and other government personnel shall be permitted
free access to the event to make inspections to ensure compliance with all City, State, and
Federal laws.
N. Approval Of Other Public Agencies: The applicant has obtained the approval of any other
public agency within whose jurisdiction the event or portion thereof will occur.
O. Facility Reservations: If the application proposes the use of any City facility designated and
designed to be available on a reservation basis and subject to a facility use agreement, the
applicant shall also be responsible to comply with all rules and regulations applicable to the
reservation and use of such facility, and pay all applicable fees and deposits prior to the
issuance of the special event permit.
P. Exclusive Use Of Public Property: The event will not require the exclusive use of park or
other public areas in a manner which will adversely impact upon the reasonable use or access
to those areas by the general public unless such exclusive use has been approved by the Parks
and Recreation Director pursuant to the department's policies.
Q. Filming Events: For a filming event, the number of dates of filming and the number of
locations to be used, and a report regarding discussions with property owners or occupants in
the affected neighborhoods. The applicant shall provide a short written description of and
schedule for the proposed filming to the owners and occupants in the affected neighborhoods
(as defined by boundaries set by the Parks and Recreation Director). The applicant shall talk
with owners and occupants of all such property and submit as part of the application a report
noting any owner's or occupant's reaction along with the addresses and phone numbers of all
such property owners and occupants.
R. Large Scale Event Application: For a large scale event, an applicant shall submit an
application to the Parks and Recreation Department not less than ninety (90) days before the
event is proposed to commence and shall be subject to the nonrefundable large scale event
application fee. All conditions of a large scale event permit will be outlined therein. Priority for
large scale event permits in Draper Park shall be based on past history of holding the same
event in Draper Park, value of event to Draper residents, and order of submission.
S. Prior Experience: Applicants must submit documentation of prior experience, if any, of
holding a similar event, including where the event was held and when.
T. Additional Information: Any additional information that the City finds reasonably necessary
to a fair determination as to whether a special event permit should issue. (Ord. 1354, 9-18-
2018)

15-4-070: SPECIAL EVENTS ON VACANT PROPERTIES:
Special events may be allowed on properties which are vacant or undeveloped following
application for and issuance of a special event permit in compliance with the terms of this
chapter. (Ord. 1354, 9-18-2018)
15-4-080: CITY SUPPORT SERVICES:
City support services shall be provided for special events as determined by the City to protect
the health, safety, and welfare of the public, at cost as stated in the City's consolidated fee
schedule, payable by the organizer.
A. Payment Of Estimated Support Costs: The City shall not issue a special event permit until
the organizer pays the estimated support costs as determined by the City based on the
application and past experience with similar events.
B. Support Costs: City support costs include, but are not limited to, police (but only for traffic
control and cleanup), fire, and emergency medical protection, park maintenance, power, water,
road closures, cleanup of City facilities before, during, or after the special event, and other costs
to the City directly attributable to the special event.
C. Services Limited: City support services shall be limited to the minimum necessary to protect
the health, safety, and welfare of the public and the public's use of City property. Police
protection needs shall be determined and assigned by the Chief of Police or designee after
considering relevant criteria such as the size, location, duration, time, and date of the special
event; the number of streets and intersections blocked; and the need to detour or preempt
public travel and use of streets or sidewalks. Park maintenance as well as the closure of roads
and streets shall be administered by the appropriate City departments or divisions.
D. Payment Of Invoice: The City shall bill, and the organizer shall pay, the remaining support
costs within thirty (30) days after the date of invoice. Any refund due to the organizer shall be
paid by the City within thirty (30) days after the special event if actual costs are less than the
estimate.
E. Police, Fire, And Traffic Crowd Control: The organizer shall provide police and fire protection
and traffic crowd control to the extent determined by the Police Chief, the Fire Chief, or their
designees, and shall pay the fees therefor as stated in the City's consolidated fee schedule.
(Ord. 1354, 9-18-2018)

15-4-090: CONDITIONS OF ISSUANCE:
A. As a condition to issuing a permit, the Parks and Recreation Director may impose
reasonable terms and regulations concerning the time and place of such event; the area and
manner of conducting such event; the maximum number of persons participating therein; the
regulation of traffic, if required, including the number and type of vehicles, the number and
type of signs and barricades to be provided by the applicant, if any, together with a plan of their
disposition following the event; permissible noise levels; and such other requirements as the
Director may find reasonable and necessary for the protection of persons and property and the
compliance with the requirements of this Code.
B. Issuance of a special event permit is conditioned on and subject to the right of the City to
suspend, revoke, restrict or modify such permit due to the failure to pay event fees, costs or
deposits, provide required insurance, or for the planning, permitting or conduct of activities or
programs which are a violation of law or the conditions or parameters of the permit.
C. The issuance of a special event permit herein shall not entitle a person or entity to the
issuance of a special event permit in the future.
D. A special event permit granted herein is not transferable. (Ord. 1354, 9-18-2018)



15-4-100: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL:
An application for a special events permit may be denied on any of the following grounds:
A. The application for permit is not fully completed or fails to comply with the requirements of
this chapter.
B. The application for permit contains a material falsehood or misrepresentation.
C. The applicant is legally incompetent to contract or to sue and be sued.
D. The applicant or any person on whose behalf the application for permit was made has on
prior occasions:
1. Damaged City property and has not paid in full for such damage, or has other outstanding
and unpaid debts to the City;
2. Made material misrepresentations regarding the nature or scope of an event or activity
previously permitted; or
3. Has violated the terms of prior permits issued to or on behalf of the applicant.
4. Has held a special event in another jurisdiction that did not comply with a permit or the
ordinances of that jurisdiction.
E. The applicant has failed to comply with all conditions and regulations attendant to issuance
of the permit.
F. The use or activity intended by the applicant is prohibited by the provisions of this Code,
regulations of the City, or otherwise prohibited by law.
G. The conduct of the special event will substantially interrupt the safe and orderly movement
of other pedestrian or vehicular traffic contiguous to its route or location, unreasonably limit or
obstruct access to private property, or unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such public assembly areas.
H. The proposed event will unreasonably interfere with or obstruct the public's ability to use
public property for activities unrelated to the event.
I. The conduct of the special event will require the diversion of so great a number of City police
officers to properly police the line of movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent
normal police protection of the City.
J. The conduct of the special event is reasonably likely to cause injury to persons or property.
K. Adequate sanitation and other required health facilities are not, or will not be, available in
or adjacent to any special event areas.
L. There are insufficient parking places near the site of the special event to accommodate the
number of vehicles reasonably expected.
M. The special event, if conducted on City property, is for the primary purpose of advertising
any product, goods, or event that is primarily for private profit. This prohibition against
advertising products, goods, or events shall not apply to signs identifying organizations or
sponsors furnishing or sponsoring exhibits or structures used in the special event.
N. A City event is scheduled for the same time and location.
O. A special event permit application for the same time and location is already granted or has
been received and will be granted.
P. An event is scheduled elsewhere in the City where the police resources required for that
event are so great that the deployment of police services for the proposed special event would
have an immediate and adverse effect upon the welfare and safety of persons and property.
Q. The special event permit application was filed less than:
        (i) forty five (45) days prior to the event for events with an estimated combined
        attendance of fewer than five hundred (500) participants and spectators; or
        (ii) ninety (90) days for a Large Scale Event; or
        (iii) four (4) days before the filming is scheduled to occur.
R. The applicant failed to obtain a special event permit for a previous event that was
required to have a special event permit.
S. The Parks and Recreation Director has the discretion to deny a permit for any event that is
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the public.
(Ord. 1354, 9-18-2018)

15-4-110: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
Violations of this chapter shall be punished as a Class C misdemeanor for a first offense and as a
Class B misdemeanor for subsequent violations. (Ord. 1354, 9-18-2018)

15-4-120: REVOCATION OF SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT:
A. Any special event permit issued is subject to revocation if the Parks and Recreation Director
determines:
1. That the event cannot be conducted without violating the standards or conditions for
special events; or
2. The event is being conducted in violation of any condition of the special event permit; or
3. The event poses a threat to health or safety; or
4. The applicant or any person associated with the event has failed to obtain any other permit
required pursuant to this chapter or any other applicable law; or
5. The special event permit was issued in error or contrary to law.
B. Notices of revocation shall be in writing and specifically set forth the reasons for the
revocation. However, if there is an emergency requiring immediate revocation of a special
event permit, the Parks and Recreation Director may notify the permit holder verbally of the
revocation. (Ord. 1354, 9-18-2018)

15-4-130: DELEGATION OF DIRECTOR'S AUTHORITY:
A. The Parks and Recreation Director may delegate any or all of his or her functions under this
chapter to his or her deputies or subordinates. (Ord. 1354, 9-18-2018)
                                                                           FIGURE 15-4-1

                                                    TRAIL SPECIAL EVENTS
                                                     RESTRICTION AREA
                                                                                                                                                                  ¯
                                                                 300 E
                             Lone Pe
700 W




                                                         Kimballs Ln



                                                                                             1000 E
                                           11950 S
                                     a
                               k Pk w y




                                            12150 S
                                                                         12200 S                        e
                                                                                                    Drap r Pk w y
                                                                                                                             Pioneer Rd
                                                         12450 S                Pioneer Rd
                    265 W

                                125 W

                                            r
                                          Minuteman D




                                                                             700 E
                                                    150 E

                                                             300 E




                                                                                         Fort St
        ner Blvd




                                                                                                             1300 E




                                                                     Carlquist D
                                            13200 S                                  r
                                                                                                                      13200 S
        n




                                                             300 E
   ntru




                                                                                     13400 S 13400 S
  Fro




                              13490 S
                                                        1 50 E




                                                                   Stokes Ave
                                                             300 E
                         20 0 W




                                                                         13800 S
                                                                                                               Ramb
                                                                                                                        ling R
                                                                                                                               d
                                                                                                         d
                                                                                                    yR
                                                                                             st r
                                                                                           Ve                              ir D
                                                                                                                                r
                                                                                                                 e    We
                                                                                                             Mik
                                                        Way
                                                 re
                                         tu
                                    Fu
                   Rd




                                                                                                                            Traverse Ridge Rd
                     s
             ma pr es




                         D
                    n
                   r
       n ut e Ex
    M i P on y




                                                                                                                                                Su ncre st
                                                                                                                                                             Dr
