                                           Dominion Energy
                                Natural Gas Pressure Regulating Station
                                           Suncrest Station
                 DRAPER CIT Y
ADMI NI S TRATI ON




                                                  Bret Millburn


                                            City Council Work Session
                                                  April 12, 2022
                                Why the need for the proposed infrastructure?

                                • The intermediate high pressure system (IHP), or the system that delivers gas up to the
                                  meter at all the residential homes in the area, requires a new pressure delivery point
                 DRAPER CIT Y
ADMI NI S TRATI ON




                                  in order to bolster pressures to support the growth and maintain system reliability.

                                • The IHP system is designed to provide adequate pressures under peak operating
                                  conditions (time of highest demand for natural gas). Current infrastructure operates
                                  between 20-30 psig. Further growth in the area will drive pressures down further if a
                                  new station is not installed, which puts the area at risk of lost service.

                                • A 1” medium capacity post style station is being proposed for this site because it is
                                  what has been determined as necessary at this time to provide the needed pressure
                                  support. The pressures are increased above 30 psig with the new post style station
                                  installed. The primary above ground facilities for this site will consist of a control
                                  valve assembly and the pressure regulating station assembly.
                                Why this particular area?

                                • The Suncrest area as a whole
                                  is an isolated section of our
                 DRAPER CIT Y
ADMI NI S TRATI ON




                                  system with a single pipe that
                                  ties in to our existing IHP
                                  system infrastructure both to
                                  the north and south. As a
                                  result of its isolation and
                                  overall demand on the
                                  system, the Suncreast area
                                  has low IHP operating
                                  pressures.
                                Why this particular area continued?
                                •   The specific station site is being pursued
                                    because this area of the Suncrest
                                    development provides reasonable access
                 DRAPER CIT Y
ADMI NI S TRATI ON




                                    to both the IHP system that needs
                                    support and a high pressure feeder line
                                    that will provide the natural gas supply to
                                    the station. A high pressure tap line of
                                    approximately 1800 ft will need to be
                                    installed to get gas supply to the station
                                    for this site.

                                •   As part of considerations for an
                                    acceptable site, Dominion attempts to
                                    minimize the amount of high pressure
                                    piping that is required to provide gas
                                    supply to the station. The proposed site
                                    satisfies that need.
                                Site requirements

                                • A station site of 100x100 ft will give the necessary space for the station equipment
                                  and allow for a future expansion to a larger station should the area growth require it. ▪
                 DRAPER CIT Y
ADMI NI S TRATI ON




                                  If station is upgraded in the future, the station will be housed in a 12x12 ft building
                                  with a 9 ft eave. We anticipate an upgrade will be needed in 5-10 years.

                                • Dominion Energy requires a property to provide the necessary protections to the site
                                  with fire being a concern in the area. There is significant wild fire risk in the area, so
                                  the ability to fence in our above ground equipment and provide a clearance area is
                                  important to infrastructure protection and safety. ▪ The wildfire threat level is
                                  characterized as being Extreme and a very high fire intensity (flame length of
                                  approximately 12-20 ft) by the Utah Wildfire Risk Assessment Project (UWRA). This
                                  threat level assessment is a basis for which Dominion is pursuing a site that will allow
                                  them to set up a clear zone around their equipment.
                                Equipment Description and Function
                                • Overall Station Site o Size: 100 x 100 ft
                                • Function: Provide Natural Gas to IHP system.
                                • Safety: Site is secured with a 8 ft precast concrete fence. All gates are padlocked.
                 DRAPER CIT Y
ADMI NI S TRATI ON




                                • Noise Considerations: The sound of the gas flow through the above ground piping is the only noise
                                  produced at the site after the completion of construction. The distance between the station and homes
                                  in the area along with the fencing should minimize any noise pollution from impacting residents any
                                  more than the ambient noise of the area. Stations of this size are placed in residential areas through out
                                  the Dominion Energy natural gas system.

                                • Control Valve Assembly o Size: 5’7”x5’x3’ minimum foot print of main assembly. Blow down stack sits
                                  approximately 7 feet above grade to the top of the stack.
                                • Function: This assembly is used to control flow of gas into and out of the station and allows for the
                                  station to be bypassed in the case of maintenance or emergency.
                                • Safety: All valves that are used to control the flow of gas are locked into their proper positions to prevent
                                  changes that could cause safety concerns.
                                • Environmental Impact: Not a concern. Gas is only evacuated to atmosphere through this assembly when
                                  absolutely necessary to ensure a safe working environment. This is standard practice across our system
                                  and is done at all other stations.
Examples
           DRAPER CIT Y
           ADMI NI S TRATI ON
SunCrest proposed sites
                          DRAPER CIT Y
                          ADMI NI S TRATI ON
Proposed sites
                 DRAPER CIT Y
                 ADMI NI S TRATI ON
                                Questions or Comments?

                                                    Contact:
                 DRAPER CIT Y
ADMI NI S TRATI ON




                                                  Bret Millburn
                                         Bret.Millburn@draperutah.gov
                                                 801.576.6516
