Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: February 24, 2022
Re: Draper Galena Park Office – Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment for approximately 3.7 acres located on the south side of 12300 South, at approximately 681 West 12300 South. The properties have split zoning and land use designations. The applicant would like to rezone 2.77 acres of property to the CC zone and modify the land use designation on 1.93 acres of property to the Neighborhood Commercial designation. The intent is to bring all the properties under the same zoning and land use designations in order to redevelop the property into an office use. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6.   The proposal complies with the Land Use Map Amendment standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
For denial:
1.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
5.  There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 2/17/2022 Cover Memo