                                   Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                                 November 1, 2022

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: November 10, 2022

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Planning Manager/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov

Re:      Living Planet Aquarium Science Learning Center – Amended Site Plan Request
         Application No.: SPR-113-2022
         Applicant:        Brent Anderson, representing Loveland Living Planet Aquarium
         Project Location: 12047 S Lone Peak Pkwy
         Current Zoning: CSD-LPA (Living Planet Aquarium Commercial Special Dissect)
                           Zone
         Acreage:          2.05 Acres (Approximately 89,298 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of an Amended Site Plan in the CSD-LPA
                           zone regarding a new building at the Loveland Living Planet
                           Aquarium.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of an Amended Site Plan for approximately 2.05
acres located on the east side of Lone Peak Parkway, at approximately 12047 S Lone Peak
Parkway (Exhibit C & D). The property is currently zoned CSD-LPA. The applicant is
requesting that an Amended Site Plan be approved in order to add a new building to the
site. The new building will feature events space, classrooms, exhibit areas, and
administrative offices.

The Loveland Living Planet Aquarium was originally approved in 2012 with the creation of
the CSD-LPA zone and approval of a site plan. The Aquarium expanded in 2019 with an
outdoor plaza and stage referred to as the Claw.

ANALYSIS



Living Planet Aquarium Science Learning Center                      App. # SPR-113-2022
Amended Site Plan Request                               1
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                     General Plan and Zoning Designations                    Exhibit
 Existing Land Use           Commercial Special District                             Exhibit E
 Current Zoning              CSD-LPA                                                 Exhibit F
 Proposed Use                Expanded Aquarium Building
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                     I-15, CR (Regional Commercial)
    West                     CSD-LP (Lone Peak Commercial Special District)
    North                    CSD-LPA
    South                    CBP (Business Manufacturing Park)

The Commercial Special District land use designation is characterized as follows:




Living Planet Aquarium Science Learning Center                           App. # SPR-113-2022
Amended Site Plan Request                          2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-18F-010 the purpose of the CSD-
LPA zone is to “facilitate commercial development along the Lone Peak Parkway area. The
property is characterized by the completed Living Planet Aquarium site and an adjacent seven-
acre parcel to the south, with freeway frontage and visibility and ample access to frontage roads.
The area is approximately 16.5 acres in size, including a portion of the Rocky Mountain Power
corridor. Given the site's proximity to the freeway, the City anticipates a substantial
entertainment and retail presence within the CSD that forwards the community's economic
development goals.”

Site Plan Layout. The proposed building will be connected to the existing aquarium at the
existing lobby and then sweep south along the east side of the Claw plaza area (Exhibit G).

 Table 2                        Site Plan Design Requirements
 Standard                       DCMC Requirements      Proposal               Notes
 Lot/Parcel Size                NA                     2.05                   This is a part of
                                                                              the larger 16.3 ac
                                                                              site.
 Street Frontage                50-feet               450-feet
 Setback-
    Front                       5-feet                492-feet                Building is set
                                                                              back behind the
                                                                              Claw and parking
                                                                              lot
     Rear                       5-feet                27.1-feet
     Side                       5-feet                62.3-feet
     Side                       5-feet                383-feet                Building is
                                                                              located to the
                                                                              south of the
                                                                              existing
                                                                              aquarium
                                                                              building.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. Minor planter beds will be provided around the front of the
building. The structure fronts onto the Claw plaza (Exhibit G). The below table provides
landscaping statistics for the entire Aquarium property.

 Table 5                        Landscaping Design Requirements
 Standard                       DCMC Requirements     Proposal                Notes
 Lot Coverage
 Overall Landscaping            15%                   23.3%
 Coverage
 Parking Lot                    NA                    2.4%




Living Planet Aquarium Science Learning Center                          App. # SPR-113-2022
Amended Site Plan Request                         3
 Landscaping

Parking. The parking lot for the Aquarium already exists and included this proposed
expansion in the original parking calculations (Exhibit G). The proposed site will add a total
of 9 additional stalls on site. The applicant has provided a parking study indicating the
existing parking and proposed 9 additional stalls are sufficient for the site. The previous
site plan approval for the Claw, dated February 28, 2019 included several requirements in
relation to parking and occupancy:

    1. That the applicant obtains a special event permit from Draper City for any event
       with over 3,000 people in attendance at the Aquarium, whether for an event or for
       standard operations.
    2. Per the analysis methodology of the TIS, no event with expected attendance above
       3,000 people is permitted to begin until 7:00 PM on weekdays and non-holidays
       without a special event permit from Draper City.
    3. Per the analysis methodology of the TIS, opening regular operational hours is not
       permitted to be earlier than 10:00 AM.
    4. That the applicant utilizes a space-time management system for ticketing large
       events or during peak visiting times to ensure that visitors are spread out over time,
       unless an alternative plan is approved with a special event permit.

Staff recommends these previous conditions of approval remain on the property. The
below table provides parking statistics for the entire Aquarium property.

 Table 6                        Parking Lot Design Requirements
 Standard                       DCMC Requirements      Proposal                  Notes
 Parking Required               3 stalls/ 1,000 public 751
                                occupied building
                                space

Architecture. The building will contain three stories (Exhibit H). The first story will contain
exhibit and classroom spaces. The second story will contain exhibit and banquet spaces.
The third story will be a partial story and contain administrative office spaces. The rear and
side of the building will match the existing Aquarium building with the blue wave pattern
on concrete tilt up panels. The front of the building will be a unique pattern and shapes
which mimics the mountainous shapes of the Wasatch Front.

 Table 7                        Architectural Design Requirements
 Standard                       DCMC Requirements      Proposal                  Notes
 Building Height
    Main Building               175-feet                 81-feet 1 7/8-inches
 Materials
    Primary                     CMU, Concrete tilt-up,   Metal Paneling,



Living Planet Aquarium Science Learning Center                             App. # SPR-113-2022
Amended Site Plan Request                           4
                                Brick, Rock, Stucco,       Concrete tilt-up
                                Metal, or Glass

Lighting. Building mounted lights will be provided. No new light poles are proposed. The
CSD-LPA zone prohibits illumination spillage into adjacent residential areas. The site is not
located adjacent to any residential neighborhoods.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of an Amended Site Plan request is found in
Sections 9-5-090(E) and (H) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for
such requests as:

         E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site
             plan:
             1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
                approved.
             2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but
                not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
                building materials.
             3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
                general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
             4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
                development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
             5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in
                Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage,
                and utilities concerns.

         H. Amendments: Except as may be provided for in this section, no element of an
             approved site plan shall be changed or modified without first obtaining approval of
             an amended site plan as follows:
             1. Alteration or expansion of an approved site plan may be permitted by the Zoning
                Administrator upon making the following findings:
             a. The proposed use is consistent with uses permitted on the site;
             b. Existing uses were permitted when the site plan was approved, or have received a
                conditional use permit;
             c. The proposed use and site will conform to applicable requirements of this Code;
             d. The proposed expansion meets the approval standards of subsection E of this
                section;
             e. The site can accommodate any change in the number of people on the site or any
                change in impact on surrounding infrastructure; and
             2. If the Zoning Administrator cannot make the findings required in this subsection H,
                the amended site plan may only be approved by the Planning Commission. The




Living Planet Aquarium Science Learning Center                                App. # SPR-113-2022
Amended Site Plan Request                              5
                 Planning Commission may only approve an amended site plan after a public
                 hearing that complies with all requirements of this code, including section 9-5-045.
              3. If the Zoning Administrator can make all findings required in this subsection H the
                 Zoning Administrator may approve the proposed amendment without a public
                 hearing and without notice.
              4. Properties that do not conform to the standards found within this code may be
                 required to come into compliance, subject to the standards in 9-6-040, 9-6-050, 9-
                 6-060, and 9-6-070 of this title.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Amended Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Amended Site Plan submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Amended Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, in working with the
Draper City Building and Engineering Divisions, has completed their review of the
geotechnical report submitted as a part of the Amended Site Plan. Comments from Taylor
Geo-Engineering, LLC, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Amended
Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the Planning
Commission approve the request based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, as listed within the staff report. The Planning Commission should also review the
request, hear from the applicant, and receive public comment prior to making a decision.




Living Planet Aquarium Science Learning Center                             App. # SPR-113-2022
Amended Site Plan Request                          6
If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                  Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                  site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
         2.       That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
                  development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
         3.       Provide service letter from South Valley Sewer District (SVSD) per DCMC 9-5-
                  090(D)(1)(d)(3)(E).
         4.       The foundation design and construction of the portion of the Living Planet
                  Science Learning Center building within the existing city storm drainage
                  easement be designed and constructed with helical piers. The helical piers
                  shall support the concrete footing (foundation) so that the existing storm
                  drainage pipeline can be fully excavated, including exposing any footing and
                  portion of the helical pier(s) from the pipeline invert to the ground surface
                  within the area of the existing city easement without compromising the
                  structural integrity and support of the building, including but not limited to
                  any short term or long term settling, etc. All required soil friction and soil
                  bearing capacity of the helical piers and foundation be designed and
                  constructed below the invert elevation of the city storm drainage
                  pipeline. The structural engineer and geotechnical engineer each shall
                  provide sealed letters attesting that this requirement is satisfied with the
                  design as part of the building permit and verified after construction prior to
                  the Certificate of Occupancy. The purpose is to ensure the continued
                  operation and potential replacement of the storm drainage pipeline is not
                  compromised by the construction of the Living Planet Science Learning
                  Center within the existing storm drainage easement. Alternatively, if the
                  foundation cannot be designed and constructed to satisfy the stated
                  requirement, then the existing city storm drainage pipeline shall be relocated
                  outside the influence of the foundation, based on the City Engineering
                  approval.
         5.       The parcel owner(s) record an amendment to the existing city storm drainage
                  easement expanding the easement boundary eastward so that there is the
                  full twenty feet width outside the building wall and foundation footprint,
                  expanding the overall easement width accordingly. A copy of the recorded
                  easement amendment is required prior to issuance of the Land Disturbance
                  Permit and Building Permit. Alternatively, if the city storm drainage pipeline
                  is relocated, then the modified city storm drainage easement shall be a
                  minimum of twenty feet wide, centered on the new alignment.
         6.       That the site shall comply with the conditions of approval from the February
                  28, 2019 Living Planet Aquarium Plaza approval:




Living Planet Aquarium Science Learning Center                          App. # SPR-113-2022
Amended Site Plan Request                        7
                  a. That the applicant obtains a special event permit from Draper City for any
                     event with over 3,000 people in attendance at the Aquarium, whether for
                     an event or for standard operations.
                  b. Per the analysis methodology of the TIS, no event with expected
                     attendance above 3,000 people is permitted to begin until 7:00 PM on
                     weekdays and non-holidays without a special event permit from Draper
                     City.
                  c. Per the analysis methodology of the TIS, opening regular operational
                     hours is not permitted to be earlier than 10:00 AM.
                  d. That the applicant utilizes a space-time management system for ticketing
                     large events or during peak visiting times to ensure that visitors are
                     spread out over time, unless an alternative plan is approved with a
                     special event permit.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1.       The site has been developed as a phased development.
         2.       The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in Title 9 of the
                  DCMC, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points,
                  parking, landscaping, and building materials.
         3.       The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of
                  the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is
                  located.
         4.       The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the
                  subject development, as required by engineering standards and
                  specifications.
         5.       The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards
                  found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of DCMC, including traffic, storm water
                  drainage, and utilities concerns.



The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.       The entire site was not developed at one time.
         2.       The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in Title 9 of
                  the DCMC, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access
                  points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
         3.       The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and
                  objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which
                  the site is located.
         4.       The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the
                  subject development, as required by engineering standards and
                  specifications.




Living Planet Aquarium Science Learning Center                            App. # SPR-113-2022
Amended Site Plan Request                         8
         5.       The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering
                  standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of DCMC, including traffic,
                  storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Amended Site Plan, as requested
by Brent Anderson, representing Loveland Living Plane Aquarium for the Living Planet
Aquarium Science Learning Center, application SPR-113-2022, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated November 1, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Amended Site Plan, as
requested by Brent Anderson, representing Loveland Living Plane Aquarium for the Living
Planet Aquarium Science Learning Center, application SPR-113-2022, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated November 1, 2022 and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Amended Site Plan, as requested by
Brent Anderson, representing Loveland Living Plane Aquarium for the Living Planet
Aquarium Science Learning Center, application SPR-113-2022, based on the findings listed
in the Staff Report dated November 1, 2022.




Living Planet Aquarium Science Learning Center                            App. # SPR-113-2022
Amended Site Plan Request                         9
                   DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                     Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield


 Brien Maxfield
                     DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City, ou=PW                              Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                     - Engineering,                                                           DN: C=US, E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                     email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov, c=US
                                                                        Jennifer Jastremsky
__________________________________                                       __________________________________
                                                                                              O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City, CN=Jennifer
                     Date: 2022.11.04 10:32:02 -06'00'                                        Jastremsky
                                                                                              Date: 2022.11.03 09:43:51-06'00'


Draper City Public Works Department                                      Draper City Planning Division



                                                                         Mike Barker
                     Digitally signed by Don Buckley                                      Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                     DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,
                                                                                          Date: 2022.11.03 10:56:56
Don Buckley          O=Draper City Fire Department, OU=Fire

__________________________________
                     Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                     Date: 2022.11.03 11:51:14-06'00'                    __________________________________
                                                                                          -06'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                              Draper City Legal Counsel


                     Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                     DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov,

 Keith Collier       O=Draper City, OU=Building Official,

__________________________________
                     CN=Keith Collier
                     Date: 2022.11.03 11:17:44-06'00'


Draper City Building Division




Living Planet Aquarium Science Learning Center                                                      App. # SPR-113-2022
Amended Site Plan Request                                          10
                                                                   9
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. Provide service letter from South Valley Sewer District (SVSD) per DCMC 9-5-
          090(D)(1)(d)(3)(E).
       2. Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
          construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division
          and is required prior to Building Permit issuance.
       3. Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained
          through the Engineering Division.
       4. Existing SD pipeline alignment from offsite – north of full aquarium – follows the
          eastern boundary. This pipeline is shown on the Phase 1 drawings as SD. Plans
          indicate abandonment of an irrigation pipeline in the approximate alignment of
          storm drain. This pipeline is required to remain active.
       5. Add fire flow requirement to utility plan per DCMC 9-5-090(D)(1)(d)(3)(C). This is
          the fire flow required for the proposed building based on the structure material
          type and occupancy. Stated fire flow requirement is 5,250 gpm. Discussion with the
          fire marshal is required. Based on the note, a required fire flow is 1,500 gpm.
       6. The foundation design and construction of the portion of the Living Planet Science
          Learning Center building within the existing city storm drainage easement be
          designed and constructed with helical piers. The helical piers shall support the
          concrete footing (foundation) so that the existing storm drainage pipeline can be
          fully excavated, including exposing any footing and portion of the helical pier(s)
          from the pipeline invert to the ground surface within the area of the existing city
          easement without compromising the structural integrity and support of the
          building, including but not limited to any short term or long term settling, etc. All
          required soil friction and soil bearing capacity of the helical piers and foundation
          be designed and constructed below the invert elevation of the city storm drainage
          pipeline. The structural engineer and geotechnical engineer each shall provide
          sealed letters attesting that this requirement is satisfied with the design as part of
          the building permit and verified after construction prior to the Certificate of
          Occupancy. The purpose is to ensure the continued operation and potential
          replacement of the storm drainage pipeline is not compromised by the
          construction of the Living Planet Science Learning Center within the existing storm
          drainage easement. Alternatively, if the foundation cannot be designed and
          constructed to satisfy the stated requirement, then the existing city storm
          drainage pipeline shall be relocated outside the influence of the foundation,
          based on the City Engineering approval.
       7. The parcel owner(s) record an amendment to the existing city storm drainage
          easement expanding the easement boundary eastward so that there is the full
          twenty feet width outside the building wall and foundation footprint, expanding
          the overall easement width accordingly. A copy of the recorded easement
          amendment is required prior to issuance of the Land Disturbance Permit and
          Building Permit. Alternatively, if the city storm drainage pipeline is relocated, then
          the modified city storm drainage easement shall be a minimum of twenty feet
          wide, centered on the new alignment.

Fire Division Review.

       1. Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
          twenty-six (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen
          (13) feet six (6) inches shall be required. The road must be designed and
          maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The surface
          shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall have an
          inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a maximum grade
          of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits being issued.
       2. IFC SECTION 3310 ACCESS FOR FIRE FIGHTING DURING CONSTRUCTION 3310.1.1
          Required access. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be, provided to all
          construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall be provided to within 100
          feet (30 480 mm) of temporary or permanent fire department connections.
          Either temporary or permanent roads, capable of supporting vehicle loading
          under all weather conditions, shall provide vehicle access. Vehicle access shall
          be, maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.

               a. Until permanent fire apparatus access roads are constructed, fire-fighting
                  vehicle access is the means by which fire fighters gain access to the
                  construction or demolition site and building for fire suppression and
                  rescue operations. Such access is an integral component of the fire
                  prevention program. The site superintendent or other person responsible
                  for construction and demolition operations is responsible for maintaining
                  and policing fire-fighter access routes, as pro-vided in Section 3308. Fire
                  apparatus must be able to get within 100 feet (30 480 mm) of any
                  installed fire department connection supplying water to temporary or
                  permanent fire protection systems. Access roads must support the
                  weight of the heaviest vehicle that might respond. The weight
                  requirements are avail-able from the local fire department. All-weather
                  sur-faces are required because the responding fire department should
                  not waste time moving snow or trying to get out of mud.
3. IFC CHAPTER 33 FIRE SAFETY DURING CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION. This
    section of fire will be enforced. Please make sure the project is maintaining all
    aspects of this chapter during construction.
4. Fire Hydrants are required. Hydrants are required for this project. They shall be,
    protected with bollards if susceptible to vehicle damage. Fire Flow for the
    building shall be a minimum of 5,000 GPM @ 20 p.s.i. residual pressure, and this
    will require a minimum of five (5) fire hydrants for this project to deliver the
    calculated fire flow. With a full NFPA 13 fire sprinkler system the fire flow could
    be reduced by 50 percent which would be 2500gpm @ 20p.s.i. residual pressure
    which would allow a reduction of hydrants to require a minimum of three (3)
    hydrants per building spaced at 350ft spacing.
5. Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire
    Department Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire
    Department prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time during
    the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department Access
    becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.
6. No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and
    testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any
    combustible elements being received or delivered on building site.
7. Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler shop
    drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at
    fire.permits@draperutah.gov. A complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut
    sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III or
    better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to be a hydrant with-in a 100 feet
    of the FDC.) FDC is required to have KNOX Locking Caps. ALL FIRE PROTECTION
    PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER
    FIRE DEPARTMENT.
8. Fire Department Connection (FDC): The FDC is required as part of a water-based
    suppression system as the auxiliary water supply. The FDC will give the fire
    department the capability to supply additional pressure necessary to the
    automatic fire sprinkler system and the standpipe system. The FDC will be
    located at the entrance to the building and will be within 100-feet of the fire
    hydrant. The FDC will be located to ensure connected hoses which supply the
    system will not obstruct access to the buildings for other fire apparatus. The
    final location of FDC will be approved by the Fire Marshal.
9. Standpipes May Be Required. These buildings will be required to have
    standpipes. This standpipe will be required to be pressure tested and a
    Contractor Certificate of Completion will be required to be filled out.
10. Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to be
    sent via email to the following to: Don Buckley at fire.permits@draperutah.gov .
    A complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and battery calculations.
    Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III or better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL
    FIRE ALARM PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO
    THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT. A Voice Intelligible System will be required and
    the fire alarm contractor will be required to be able to test the system with the
    proper equipment.
11. Emergency Responder Radio Coverage Required. Emergency responder radio
    coverage shall be provided in accordance with the IFC 510. Before a Fire Safety
    Codes Release (Certificate of Occupancy) is issued, compliance with International
    Fire Code Section 510 is required by means of an Emergency Responder Radio
    Coverage System (ERRCS) installed, tested, and accepted OR through field testing
    by a FCC licensed radio contractor to verify that an ERRCS is not warranted. A
    critical element to compliance with this standard is preliminary testing once the
    building is dried-in. This will need to be looked at in the existing building as well.
12. Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted to
    exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the
    exterior access to the fire sprinkler riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the top of
    the box) Lock box purchase can be arranged by the General Contractor.
13. 2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable
    type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a
    conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and immediately
    available for use. Placed every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or not the
    extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not more than
    five (5) feet above the floor.
14. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
    address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
    property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
                                    EXHIBIT B
                                LEGAL DESCRIPTION



Lot 2 in the B.M.P Lot 2 Amended Subdivision
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT G
SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WWW.SILVERPEAKENG.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            177 E. ANTELOPE DR. STE. B

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PHONE: (801) 499-5054
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LAYTON, UT 84041



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SILVERPEAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CIVIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STRUCTURAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Δ=21°30'00"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R=1687.02'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L=633.05'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LIVING PLANET - SCIENCE LEARNING CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CH=629.34'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S 9°29'02" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12047 SOUTH LONE PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OVERALL SITE AREA TABULATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOCAL SITE AREA TABULATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0°1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      311
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .96
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SEAL:

                              LEGEND



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DATE: 9/14/2022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT: 21-367
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MANAGER: J.R.J.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MARK DATE / DESC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SITE PLAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CALL BLUESTAKES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    @ 1-800-662-4111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AT LEAST 48 HOURS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S 89°59'57" W                    751.10'                                                                           PRIOR TO COMMENCING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ANY CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C200
PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR MAKING SURE THAT ALL REQUIRED PERMITS AND APPROVALS HAVE BEEN OBTAINED. NO CONSTRUCTION OR FABRICATION SHALL BEGIN UNTIL THE CONTRACTOR HAS RECEIVED AND THOROUGHLY REVIEWED ALL PLANS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS APPROVED BY ALL OF THE PERMITTING AUTHORITIES.
 EXHIBIT H
ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                             1                                                               2                                                                                 3                                                                               4                                                                5                                                      6                                              7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REV. DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                           GLAZING TO MATCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXISTING BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REV. DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                           ETFE SKYLIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GLAZING TO MATCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GRAY STUCC, TO MATCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXISTING BUILDING      GRAY METAL PANELING,
                                                                                                                                                          GRAY METAL PANELING,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SIMILAR TO EXISTING BUILDING                       PAINTED CONCRETE TILT TO MATCH
                                                                                                                                                    SIMILAR TO EXISTING BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         08.22.2022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          06.06.2022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXISTING BUILDING PAINT COLORS


     E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T.O. WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FOOTING & FOUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     148' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DESIGN DEVELOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ROOF
This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of ORDER ARCHITECTURE L.L.C. and shall not




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   81' - 1 7/8"
be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized representative of ORDER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      142' - 0"
             ARCHITECTURE L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     130' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXHIBIT LEVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   110' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ORDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ARCHITECTURE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T 801.597.7641

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4478 W DORENA LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH JORDAN, UT 84009

D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D                                      paul@order-arch.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             www.order-arch.com

                                                                                                                                   D1     WEST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                  A201     3/32" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GLAZING TO MATCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GLAZING TO MATCH                                                         PAINTED CONCRETE TILT TO MATCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING BUILDING                                                        EXISTING BUILDING PAINT COLORS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T.O. WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     148' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GRAY STUCC, TO MATCH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  142' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GRAY METAL PANELING,
 C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SCIENCE LEARNING CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SIMILAR TO EXISTING BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12047 S. LONE PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GRAY METAL PANELING,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SIMILAR TO EXISTING BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       130' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ENTRY T.O. WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 119' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          117' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEVEL 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LEVEL 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                       GLAZING TO MATCH
                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING BUILDING


                                                                                                                                              B1       PARTIAL MAIN ENTRY ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                  B3     SOUTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                             A201      3/32" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                A201    3/32" = 1'-0"




 B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GLAZING TO MATCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXISTING BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GRAY METAL PANELING,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SIMILAR TO EXISTING BUILDING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PAINTED CONCRETE TILT TO MATCH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PAINTED CONCRETE TILT TO MATCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GLAZING TO MATCH                                               EXISTING BUILDING PAINT COLORS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING BUILDING PAINT COLORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXISTING BUILDING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T.O. WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        148' - 0"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         142' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        130' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        117' - 0"

A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXHIBIT LEVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A                                      PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            147.2002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     110' - 0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEVEL 1                                                  ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        100' - 0"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAWING NUMBER


                                                                                                                            A1
                                                                                                                           A201
                                                                                                                                    EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                    3/32" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A201
                                                                                                                                                                             1                                                               2                                                                                 3                                                                               4                                                                5                                                      6                                              7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of ORDER ARCHITECTURE L.L.C. and shall not




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E




                                                                                                    B
                                                                                                                                       C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized representative of ORDER




                                                                                        A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ARCHITECTURE L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.




1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1




     2
                                                                                                                                            1




    A202
                                                                                                                                           A202




              East Exterior Perspective
                                                                                                                                            West Exterior Perspective




2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2




3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3




4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4




5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5




6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6




                            the site plan.




7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7




                                                                                                                                                                        the site plan.




                            3D renderings not approved as part of
                                                                                                                                                                        3D renderings not approved as part of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E




                                                                                                    B
                                                                                                                                       C




                                                                                        A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE                 #   REV. DESCRIPTION   REV. DATE
                                                                                                        SCIENCE LEARNING CENTER
                                                                                                          12047 S. LONE PEAK PARKWAY
                                                                   Views
                                                                                       147.2002




                                                                                                                 DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T 801.597.7641




                                                                                                                                                                                                                www.order-arch.com




                                                                                   PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                paul@order-arch.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4478 W DORENA LN




       DRAWING NUMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          02        DESIGN DEVELOP         08.29.2022
A202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ORDER




                                                            Exterior Perspective
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOUTH JORDAN, UT 84009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ARCHITECTURE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          01        FOOTING & FOUND        06.06.2022
                                                                                                                                                                                                          This drawing, as an instrument of professional service, is the property of ORDER ARCHITECTURE L.L.C. and shall not




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E
                                                                                                                                                                                                          be used, in whole or part, for any other project without the written permission of an authorized representative of ORDER




                                                                            B
                                                                                                                                      C




                                              A
                                                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ARCHITECTURE L.L.C. Unauthorized use will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.




1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1




2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2




3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3




4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4




5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5




6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6




                                                               the site plan.




7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7




                                                               3D renderings not approved as part of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E




                                                                            B
                                                                                                                                      C




                                              A
                                                                                                                                           D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MARK ISSUE DESCRIPTION ISS. DATE               #   REV. DESCRIPTION   REV. DATE
                                                                                                       SCIENCE LEARNING CENTER
    A




                                                                                                         12047 S. LONE PEAK PARKWAY
                                   147.2002




                         Unnamed




                                                                                                                DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                         T 801.597.7641




                                                                                                                                          www.order-arch.com




                                              PROJECT NUMBER
                                                                                                                                          paul@order-arch.com
                                                                                                                                                                  4478 W DORENA LN




        DRAWING NUMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       02        DESIGN DEVELOP      08.22.2022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ORDER


                                                                                                                                                                SOUTH JORDAN, UT 84009
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ARCHITECTURE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       01        FOOTING & FOUND     06.06.2022
