2-4-060: CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES:
  A.    Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide advisory guidelines
       for the city to assist the city in identifying actions that involve physical
       taking or exaction of private real property that may have constitutional
       taking issues. This section does not apply when the City formally
       exercises its power of eminent domain.
  B.    Definitions: As used herein:
       1. CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES: Actions involving the physical
          taking or exaction of private real property by the city that might
          require compensation to a private real property owner under:
            1.a. The fifth or fourteenth amendment of the constitution of the
               United States;
            2.b.    Article I, section 22 of the Utah constitution; or
            3.c. Any recent court rulings governing the physical taking or
               exaction of private real property by a governmental entity.
  C.    Guidelines: The following guidelines shall be considered by the city
       when taking any action that might result in the physical taking or
       exaction of private real property:
       1.    Identification: The city should review the following to determine
            and identify whether a proposed governmental action raises
            constitutional taking issues:
            a.    Does the action result in a permanent physical occupation of
                 private property?
            b.    Does the action require a property owner to dedicate property
                 or grant an easement to the city?
            c.    Does the action deprive the property owner of all economically
                 viable uses of the property?
            d.    Does the action have a severe impact on the property owner's
                 economic interest?
            e.     Does the action deny a fundamental attribute of ownership?
  D.    Analysis: If the city determines that a governmental action involves
       constitutional taking issues, the proposed action should be reviewed by
       the city to analyze the possible taking and to determine the action to
       be taken. In reviewing the proposed action, the following factors may
       be analyzed:
     1.    The effect the potential taking would have on the use or value of
          the private property;
     2.    The likelihood that the action may result in a constitutional taking;
     3.    Any alternatives to the proposed action that would fulfill the city's
          lawful objectives and reduce the risk of a constitutional taking;
     4.    The cost to the city for payment of compensation if a taking is
          determined;
     5.    The legitimate governmental interest involved and its essential
          nexus to the potential taking or exaction; and
     6.    If the action is roughly proportionate or and reasonably related
          both in nature and extent, to the impact caused by the activities
          that are the subject of the proposed action to the impact of any
          proposed development.
E.    Appeals: Any owner of private property whose interest in the
     property is subject to a physical taking or exaction by the city,
     pursuant to a final and authoritative decision or action of the city, may
     appeal the city's decision or action by filing a written notice of appeal
     and statement of the grounds for the appeal in the city recorder's
     office within thirty (30) days from the date of the city's decision or
     action. The city council or its designee shall hear all evidence regarding
     the appeal and render its decision and findings in writing within
     fourteen (14) days from the date the appeal was filed. If the city fails
     to hear and decide the appeal within fourteen (14) days, the city's
     decision or action is presumed to be approved.
     1. Right to Appeal. Any owner of private property whose interest in the
        property is subject to a physical taking or exaction by the City,
        pursuant to a final and authoritative decision or action of the City,
        may appeal the City's decision or action.
     2. Filing Procedure. An applicant shall initiate the appeal by filing a
        written notice of appeal and statement of all the grounds for the
        appeal in the City Recorder's Office within thirty (30) days from the
        date of the City's decision or action.
     3. Appeal Procedure and Timing. The Appeals and Variance Hearing
        Officer shall hear all evidence regarding the appeal and render a
        decision and findings in writing within fourteen (14) days from the
        date the appeal was filed. If the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer
        fails to hear and decide the appeal within fourteen (14) days, the
        City's decision or action is presumed to be approved.
     4. Standard of Review. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall
        review the facts and information presented by the applicant and the
        City to determine by a preponderance of the evidence whether or not
        the action by the City constitutes a constitutional taking. In doing so,
        he or she shall consider the criteria for an exaction under the Utah
        Code § 10-9a-508, as well as applicable state and federal statutory
        and common law.
F.     Limitations: The guidelines set forth herein are advisory only and
     shall not be construed to expand nor limit the scope of the city's
     liability for a constitutional taking. The city shall have no legal liability
     to any person, firm or entity of any nature whatsoever and a court
     may not impose liability upon the city for failure to comply with the
     provisions of this section. The private property owner need not file the
     appeal authorized by this section before bringing an action in any court
     to adjudicate claims that are eligible for appeal. A property owner's
     failure to appeal the action of the city does not constitute, and may
     not be interpreted as constituting, a failure to exhaust administrative
     remedies or as a bar to bringing legal action.
