Draft minutes 07/14/2022
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, JULY 14, 2022 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:       Chairman Andrew Adams, Vice Chairman Craig Hawker, Commissioners
                     Mary Squire, Lisa Fowler and Alternate Commissioner Susan Nixon

ABSENT:              Commissioners Gary Ogden, DeLaina Tonks and Alternate
                     Commissioners Tab Bingham and Kendra Shirey

STAFF PRESENT:       Fred Aegerter, David Dobbins, Mike Barker, Jennifer Jastremsky, Todd
                     Draper, Brien Maxfield, Spencer DuShane, Connor Mangelson and Amie
                     Salazar

6:30 PM Business Meeting


   1. Public Hearing:      The Rock Church Amended Subdivision Plat (Administrative
      Action)

      On the request of Brent Kendall representing Salt City Rock Church, a Subdivision Plat
      Amendment request on approximately 2.81 acres located at approximately 11630 S. 700
      E. Known as application: SUBD-0167-2021. Staff Contact is Todd Draper, 801-576-6335
      or todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

      Todd Draper, Planner III presented this project stating the plat is located in a neighborhood
      commercial land use designation. The Zones are CN, RA1, and RM2. This proposal is to
      extend lot 82 to include property outside the subdivision and make a new lot 83. This
      property is already owned by the Church. The church would like to build a larger
      maintenance storage on the property eventually.

      Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked if they are planning to take any parking out. Todd
      Draper states no parking will be taken out. The change in the plat will allow them to make
      further amendments later at more of a staff level. Making it so they can build what they
      need as they go.

      Commissioner Susan Nixon asked if there was a problem with one lot having three
      different zones. Todd Draper addressed this saying there was no issue on the three different
      zones in lot 83.

       Brent Kendall, Applicant did not want to speak

      Chairman Andrew Adams opened the Public Hearing. Reminding anyone who would like
      to speak on this matter to keep their comments to three minutes per speaker, and to state
      your name for the record.

      No public comments were made.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 14, 2022
      Chairman Adams closed the public hearing

       Motion: Commissioner Hawker motioned to approve the Subdivision Plat Map for the
      request of Brent Kendall representing Salt City Rock Church, a Subdivision Plat
      Amendment. Application SUBD-0167-2021. Based on the findings and sub conditions
      listed in the staff report dated July 6, 2022.

      Second: Commissioner Mary Squire

      Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
      Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Fowler and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

   2. Public Hearing:      Summit Commerce Center Amended Subdivision Plat
      (Administrative Action)

      On the request of Mark McKee representing Exeter Draper Land LLC and ARCO Design
      Build, a Subdivision Plat Amendment request on approximately 26.94 acres, at
      approximately 13004 S. Pony Express Road, Known as application SUBD-0204-2021.
      Staff Contact is Todd Draper, 801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

      Todd Draper, City Planner III, is the presenter on this project. This is another subdivision
      plat map. It is on the west side of the freeway. This is in the zone M1. The subdivision is
      to make one lot into two different lots. There are easements for the emergency vehicle
      access around both buildings. There is also a cross access easement from lot one to lot two.
      It is noted in the staff report that the applicant is requesting to not have to put the same
      cross access easement from lot two to lot one.

      Commissioner Lisa Fowler asked why they are dividing this lot. Is it to sell one or the other
      lot, to have two different owners? Todd Draper states that is a question for the applicant.
      To subdivide is usually so they can have two different owners.

      Commissioner Fowler asks why the road ends on lot two. Todd Draper stated that the road
      doesn't end, the easement is for one to be able to go through to lot two, but to not allow any
      patrons or visitors to come from lot two and go to lot one. They would have to go the proper
      way to use the development building and use its entryways.

      The Chairman Andrew Adams invite the applicant up to speak. Applicant, Mark McKee.

      Commissioner Mary Squire asks what makes lot two incompatible to cross use and have
      an easement like lot one. Mark McKee stated he doesn't know the answer to the question.
      But he plans to go into why there is no cross access on lot two. Both lots one and two have
      access to the roads. They don't want the public to have access to the trucks and trailers and
      vice versa they don't want trucking to have access to the public locations. It is all for safety.

      Chairman Andrew Adams opened the public hearing.




                                                 2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 14, 2022
      He states that anyone with a public comment or concern on this can come address them
      now, he asks to remember to state their names for the record and to only take three minutes.

      No public comments were made.

      Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

      Motion: Commissioner Lisa Fowler moved to approve the request from Mark McKee
      representing Exeter Draper Land LLC and ARCO Design Build, for the Summit Commerce
      Center Subdivision Plat. Application SUBD-0204-2021. Based on the findings and sub
      conditions listed in the staff report dated July 1, 2022.

      Second: Commissioner Nixon

      Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
      Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire, Nixon and voted, “Aye.

3.    Public Hearing: Fitzgerald Property Development Agreement, Zoning Map and
      Land Use Map Amendments (Legislative Action)

      On the request of Draper City for a Development Agreement, Zoning Map Amendment
      from TC, RA1, and RA2 to the R5 zone, and Land Use Map Amendment from Residential
      Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium/High Density for 22.37 acres of property
      located approximately at 1060 East Pioneer Rd. Applications DA-138-2022, TEXTMAP-
      140-2022, TEXTMAP-141-2022. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
      jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

      Ms. Jastremsky reports on this presentation. She states the location of the property is right
      next to city hall. It is the Fitzgerald farm, currently used for agriculture. The purpose for
      the land use map amendment is to change it to residential medium high density from
      residential low medium density, offering 4-8 units per acre. The rezone will change the
      designation from TC, RA2, and RA1 to the R5 zone. Draper City is the applicant on this
      project. At some point in time they would like to purchase 5 acres for the city. The
      agreement for the city to purchase was noted that with that purchase of land from the owner
      the city would apply to rezone the remainder area. Vice Chairman Hawker asked what the
      City’s intent for the 5 acres was. Jennifer Jastremsky states they don't know yet, that is not
      part of this plan, the development plan for the city will come at a later date after this
      proposal has been approved.

      Development Agreement
         ● Would limit the project to the units and lot sizes listed in the development
            agreement and layout shown in the concept plan.
         ● 62 lots total
         ● 59 lots at 9,000sqft
         ● 3 lots 20,000sqft




                                                3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 14, 2022
      Change since the agenda packet went out
         ● Updated information
         ● Vests the application to the code at the development agreement period approved
            not application submitted.
         ● Allows property owners to create 5 acre parcels without going through a parcel
            boundary adjusted process.
         ● Remove a list of specific items that can be mediated and simply allows a denial of
            subdivision application to be mediated.
         ● Removes language that waives claims to damages if there is any breach in the
            agreement.
         ● Only allows the city to utilize 3rd party reviews if it is specified in the code.

      Ms. Jastremsky showed some potential plans from a 3D modeling program the city has
      with ArcUrban. To show what the subdivision could potentially look like. Site photos were
      then shown.

      Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked if there is anything in the code that requires the three
      entries. Jennifer Jastremsky states there is a requirement in the code for at least two access
      points.

      Commissioner Lisa Fowler asked why the City is the applicant in this if they are only
      purchasing 5 acres of the property. Jennifer Jastremsky states the city rezoning the property
      is part of the purchase contract with property owner for the 5 acres.

      Commissioner Susan Nixon asked if the developer would come back with a subdivision
      request. Jennifer Jastremsky states yes they will have to come back with a different request
      for that.

      Vice Chairman Craig Hawker asked if the road widths are going to be smaller or stay true
      to the road size. Jennifer Jastremsky responded by letting them know the roads would stay
      true to the code of a 60 ft width.

      Applicant is Draper City, Ms. Jastremsky asks Brad McKee with Ivory Development to
      come up to answer any questions.

      Chairman Andrew Adams opens the Public Hearing reminding anyone with public
      comments to state your name and leave your comments to 3 minutes.

      Kimberly Bell- approaches the Commissioners she is representing others in her community
      and lives on 12600 south on a dead end road. This street is next to the potential
      development. She states the road is not 60ft it is narrower. She requests that the city take
      into consideration to bury power lines to help ease the transition of the new development.
      Kimberly asks if the construction workers cannot park on the narrow road where the
      development takes place. She also asks for the developers and city to consider adding a
      green scape, which could be a playground, Dog Park, or just open space.




                                                4
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 14, 2022
      Steve Decho - Objects to the size of lots. Smaller lots with the potential of higher density.
      He also is worried about the traffic this will cause for the school in the area.

      Shujan Cao - Worries with this change in bringing more people to the area if the school
      boundary will change. She states they purchased their home so her children could go to
      Draper Elementary.

      Chairman Adams Closed the Public Hearing.

      Vice Chairman Hawker asked about the access points, he then stated 12600 street is not
      the right size. He asked Brien Maxfield to report on this. Brien Maxfield states, as the
      development process moves forward the city will need to review the street to see what
      fluctuations need to take place.

      Commissioner Lisa Fowler asked Jennifer Jastremsky if there are no plans thus far for the
      city to develop the 5 acre lot, what will happen to the road. Jennifer Jastremsky responds,
      the information she currently has does not state what the city plans to do with the property.
      She states the city council can decide sooner than later, but the road will be a stub road.
      When the development comes in they will access the road but not necessarily develop the
      road.

      Commissioner Mary Squire reviews the public comments concerns about parking
      conditions during the construction. Brien Maxfield states this will be a case by case basis,
      and when they review the street they will assess this.

      Brien Maxfield stated any future power lines coming in for the development will be buried,
      this is something the city will have to contact the power company for, but as far as he is
      aware there will be no new lines over the ground.

      Jennifer Jastremsky states the concept plan shows the 3rd stubbed road would provide
      connections, she is not sure what will take place on the 5 acres.

      Vice Chairman Hawker what are the requirements for fencing on exteriors. Jennifer states
      there are no requirements. Basic standards in the back are 6ft and lower in the front.

      Commissioners discuss and ask what size the property is compared to. Chairman Adams
      states they are the same size as Bellevue and Cranberry Hill. According to the agreement
      62 lots is the max they could do, or they could do less. Chairman Adams asks Brien
      Maxfield about the 12600 south road. With it not being the proper width what would take
      place would the city make this road in compliance with the code? Brien Maxfield
      responded stating they would see what condition the road is in and then go from there. If
      the road is in bad shape they would add it to the project list. Commissioner Nixon asks
      what if they take the access road through to Pioneer, the developers would lose a little but
      it would make more sense rather than the current plan.




                                                5
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 14, 2022
      Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to give a positive recommendation to the city
      council for the Zoning Map Amendment for Fitzgerald Property Development
      Agreement Zoning and Land Use Amendments for Draper City. Application DA-138-
      2022. Based on the findings and sub conditions listed in the staff report dated July 5,
      2022.

      Second: Commissioner Fowler

      Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
      Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire, Nixon and voted, “Aye”.

      Discussion was led by Vice Chairman Craig Hawker, the issue he has is if the zoning is
      changed without the development agreement. He doesn't want to change the zoning if the
      development agreement doesn't go through. Jennifer Jastremsky states the development
      agreement and the re-zone will be in the same ordinance. It is a packaged deal.

      Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to give a positive recommendation to the
      City Council for Fitzgerald Property Development Agreement Zoning and Land Use
      Amendments for Draper City. Application DA-138-2022. Based on the findings and
      sub conditions listed in the staff report dated July 5, 2022 and as modified by the
      findings and conditions listed below, that the City completes the access road across
      the 5 acre property, when the development is finished not when the City decides to
      develop the 5 acres.

      Second: Commissioner Nixon

      Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
      Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

      Motion: Commissioner Nixon motioned to make a positive recommendation to the
      City Council for the approval of the Land use Map Amendment requested By
      Drapery city for the Fitzgerald Property. Application DA-138-2022. TXT 140-2022
      and TXT 141-2022. Based on the findings and sub conditions listed in the staff report
      dated July 5, 2022.

      Second: Commissioner Fowler

      Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-1 in favor of the motion.
      Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Nixon voted, “Aye”. Commissioner Hawker voted
      “Nay”


   4. Action Item: Holiday Oil Landscaping Deviation Request (Administrative Action)

      On the request of Brent Neel, representing Holiday Oil for a deviation to landscaping
      requirements for 0.95 acres located at 293 East and 12300 South in the CR zone.



                                             6
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 14, 2022
      Application VAR-129-2022. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
      jennifer.Jastremsky@draperutah.gov

      Jennifer Jastremsky states this Holiday was developed in the 90’s the Applicant is wanting
      to make changes, and add some gas pumps, they would like to change the design of the
      convenient store, and are asking for a deviation on the landscaping for the project.
      Currently in the code it states “The minimum depth for landscaping is 10ft.”The applicant
      has no landscaping on the west side of the property and would like to keep it that way, they
      would like to move the convenient store closer to the carwash, and add more gas pumps.
      With the current code stating 10 ft. is needed for landscaping, this would cause a two way
      driving through to move down to a one way driving zone.

      Deviation Request
      9-23-030: Deviation from strict compliance
      B. Findings required: the planning commission may authorize a landscape plan deviation
      only if it finds the deviation:

      1. Is consistent with the proposed chapter and any applicable master plan ordinance.
      2. Reflects a design that conforms to the requirements of this chapter to the greatest extent
         possible and offers alternate methods for addressing landscaping requirements for
         which a deviation is being requested. Alternative methods may include additional
         fencing, berming, and plant material that would otherwise be required.
      3. Will not adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents.
      4. Will not adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public safety.
      5. Is justified by site constraints and
      6. Is of high quality and intergrades aesthetically with the design of the primary building
         on site and established streetscape. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015).

      Chairman Adams invited the applicant up. Applicant John Linton,

      This would allow them to improve a much used station by giving it a facelift. The building
      will be shifted to the north, and will be better for the patrons and staff. John Linton states
      he has enjoyed working with Mike Barker through different things and talking about what
      actions they need to take to move forward on this project.

      Commissioner Lisa Fowler asks if the new plan shows the access being for one vehicle
      why is the applicant asking for a deviation to make it two vehicle access.

      Jennifer Jastremsky states that the current measurements in that area are 17 ft. if the
      landscaping was left the same at the 10ft, the driving through would be 7ft, which is against
      code, needing at least 13 ft. for the driving through access. Making it so the applicant would
      have to move the building to move over and cut down on potential parking on the other
      side.




                                                7
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 14, 2022
      Motion: Commissioner Craig Hawker made a motion to approve the Holiday Oil
      Landscaping Deviation. Based on the findings and sub conditions listed in the staff
      report dated July 5, 2022.

      Second: Commissioner Squire

      Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
      Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire and Nixon voted, “Aye.”


5.    Public Hearing: Development Agreements for Bangerter Crossing 2 Office Site Plan
      and Fairfield Inn & Suites Site Plan (Legislative Action)

      On the request of Wadsworth Development requesting Development Agreements for
      Bangerter Crossing 2 Office Site Plan and Fairfield Inn & Suites Site Plan.Bangerter
      Crossing located at 13673 South 100 East on 1.6 acres and Fairfield Inn located on 13678
      south 100 East on 2.3 acres. Application DA-48-2022. The Staff contact on this project is
      Jennifer Jastremsky 801-576-6328 or jennifer.Jastremsky@draperutah.gov

      Jennifer Jastremsky presents these two requests that were approved in 2020, an office
      building and a hotel. The code requires the applicant to continue with the site plan before
      it expires one year from applying.

      The Developmental Agreement:
      ● Requires the previously approved site plan including deviations
      ● Development will not be required to go back through a site plan application and public
         hearing before proceeding to land disturbance permit and building permit.
      ● New expiration date for site plan approval is the agreement expiration date July 2028.

      Changes since the agenda packet went out.
      ● Updates to ownership and notary information
      ● Vest the site plans to the code in place at the time of site plan approval
      ● Clarifies that site plan cannot be voided or made to comply with new requirements prior
         to the expiration of the agreement.

      Jennifer Jastremsky states the two share an access point, there are shared parking spaces
      between the current hotel and future developments.

      Chairman Adams invited the applicant up to speak. Applicant Nate Ballard Wadsworth
      Development, they are the master developers in the area, for Harmons and others. Back
      when they originally applied in 2020, due to timing it stopped. They currently would like
      to finish up the project now as they planned before.

      Nate Ballard hopes the Planning Commission approves what's already been approved.
      They want to start the full design of the hotel now, the only thing that has changed is the
      timing difference. They had originally planned to do the office building first, and then the



                                               8
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 14, 2022
      hotel. This has changed making it so the hotel will be executed first and then the office
      building.

      Chairman Andrew Adams opens the public hearing reminding anyone with public
      comments to state names for record and keep comments to 3 minutes.

      No public comments were made.

      Chairman Andrew Adams closes the public hearing.

      Mike Barker, asked the applicant if the hotel brand requires 45 ft. in order to build? Nate
      Ballard responded stating he would prefer it to be a little taller but yes they are keeping it
      at the 45 ft. requirement.

      Commissioner Mary Squire asks what the deviation is on hotels and office buildings.
      Jennifer Jastremsky responds by stating the height of the hotel is 55 ft. and office buildings
      59 ft. tall.

      Motion: Commissioner Fowler made a motion to send a positive recommendation to
      the City Council to approve the Development Agreements for Bangerter Crossing 2
      Office Site Plan and Fairfield Inn & Suites Site Plan as requested by Nate Ballard
      representing Wadsworth Development. Application DA-28-2022. Based on the
      findings and sub conditions listed in the staff report dated July 14, 2022.

      Second: Commissioner Nixon

      Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
      Commissioners Fowler, Hawker, Squire, Nixon and voted, “Aye.

      Jennifer Jastremsky informed the Commissioners about the Utah American Planning
      Association Chapter Conference, September 8th and 9th. She said if anyone can attend they
      need to register for it and to let Amie or Jennifer know and the City will register them.

6.    Adjournment 8:05 p.m.
      Commissioner Nixon made a motion to adjourn. The meeting was adjourned.




                                                9
