                             ORDINANCE 1559


AN ORDINANCE OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL AMENDING CHAPTER 3
OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE CHANGING THE
PROCUREMENT RELATED EXPENDITURE LEVELS.


WHEREAS, Chapter 3 of the Draper City Municipal Code regulates all
procurement-related expenditures of the City; and
WHEREAS, from time to time it is necessary to review and amend the
Procurement Code to keep pace with current expenditure levels; and
WHEREAS, Chapter 3-3-060 defines general procurement related expenditure
levels; and
WHEREAS, Chapter 3-3-080 defines special type of expenditure levels;
WHEREAS, the City Council has reviewed the proposed text and finds good
cause to amend Chapter 3 to reflect the current expenditure levels to meet the
needs and efficiencies for the City.


NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER
CITY, STATE OF UTAH:
Section 1. Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following
finding to amend Chapter 3 of the Draper City Municipal Code: 1) The proposed
enactment is in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens
of Draper City.
Section 2. Enactment. Chapter 3 of the Draper City municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as shown in Exhibit “A” attached hereto and incorporated
herein by reference.
Section 3. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is
held invalid, or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect
any other portion of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts, and provisions of this
Ordinance shall be severable.
Section 4. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to
the date of final passage.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, ON THIS 6th DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 2022.


ATTEST:                               DRAPER CITY:




________________________              _____________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder         Mayor Troy K. Walker




VOTE TAKEN:                     YES               NO


Councilmember Green             ______            ______


Councilmember Lowery            ______            ______


Councilmember Lowry             ______            ______


Councilmember Roberts           ______            ______


Councilmember Vawdrey           ______            ______
                              EXHIBIT A




                                                    Chapter 3
                                               PROCUREMENT CODE

  3-3-01 0: COMPLIANCE:


  A. All procurement-related expenditures of the City shall conform to the provisions of this chapter and
     applicable provisions of State law including, but not limited to, the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act
     set forth at Utah Code Annotated section 10-6-101, et seq., as amended. Any expenditures of the
     City involving Federal assistance funds shall comply with applicable Federal law and regulations.
     Any expenditure of the City involving the construction, maintenance or improvement of a Class C
     road or work using Class C funds shall comply with applicable provisions of Utah Code Annotated
     sections 72-6-108 and 109, as amended. No check or warrant to cover any claim against
     appropriations may be drawn until the claim has been processed according to the relevant
     provisions provided herein.



  B. Procurement-related expenditures not covered under this chapter shall follow the Utah
     Procurement Code.



  C. All procurement shall follow the ethical standards of title 19, "Ethics", of this Code and the Utah
     Municipal Officers' and Employees' Ethics Act, Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1301, et seq.
     (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)




  3-3-020: DEFINITIONS:

  As used in this chapter:

  BID LIMIT: For a "building improvement" for the year 2003, forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00); for a
  "public works project" for the year 2003, one hundred twenty five thousand dollars ($125,000.00); for a
  "Class C road improvement project" for the year 2003, one hundred twenty five thousand dollars
  ($125,000.00). For each year after 2003, the amount of the bid limit for the previous year, plus an
  amount calculated by multiplying the amount of the bid limit for the previous year by the lesser of three
  percent (3%) or the actual percent change in the Consumer Price Index during the previous calendar
  year.

  BUILDING IMPROVEMENT: The construction or repair of a public building or structure.

  CLASS C ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: The construction and maintenance of Class C roads.

  CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS: The supplies and services used to complete a construction project.

  CONSTRUCTION OF CLASS C ROADS: Work that would apply to any new roadbed either by

http://www.sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/index.php?book_id=1002                                            1/15
3/29/2018                                                          Sterling Codifiers, Inc.

   addition to existing systems or relocations; resurfacing of existing roadways with more than two inches
   (2") of bituminous pavement; or new structures or replacement of existing structures, except the
   replacement of drainage culverts.

   CONSTRUCTION PROJECT: A building improvement, public works project, or Class C road
   improvement project.

   CONSUMER PRICE INDEX: The Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers as published by the
   Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor.

  EMERGENCY PROCUREMENT: The procurement of supplies, services, or construction materials
  that cannot be purchased through normal procurement methods due to an existing or imminent
  emergency condition. An emergency condition is a situation, which creates an immediate and serious
  threat to public health, life, safety, or property. An emergency condition is usually, but not always, the
  result of floods, natural disasters, epidemics, riots, or critical equipment failures.

  EXEMPT EXPENDITURES: Expenditures for supplies or services that are two five thousand dollars
  ($2,000.005,000.00) or less.

  GOVERNMENT AGENCY CONTRACT: An existing procurement contract that another governmental
  agency has issued.

  INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB): A procurement document used for seeking competition for large
  expenditure purchases or small expenditure purchases that may ultimately exceed the amount for a
  small expenditure purchase. IFBs are submitted electronically or in a sealed envelope to prevent its
  contents from being revealed or known before the deadline for the submission of bids.

  MAINTENANCE OF CLASS C ROADS: The keeping of a road facility in a safe and stable condition to
  which it was constructed or improved, and includes the reworking of an existing surface by the
  application of up to and including two inches (2") of bituminous pavement; the installation or
  replacement of guardrails, seal coats, and culverts; the grading or widening of an existing unpaved
  road or flattening of shoulders or side slopes to meet current width and safety standards; and
  horizontal or vertical alignment changes necessary to bring an existing road in compliance with current
  safety standards.

  PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, trust, limited liability company, corporation, or other entity
  however designated.

  PROCUREMENT: Buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, leasing with an option to purchase, or
  otherwise acquiring any supplies, services, or construction materials, and all functions that pertain to
  the obtaining of any supply, service, or construction materials, including the solicitation of sources,
  selection, award, and all phases of contract administration.

  PROFESSIONAL SERVICES: The furnishing of services for auditing, banking, insurance,
  engineering, legal, architectural, and other forms of professional consulting.

  PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT: The construction of a park or recreational facility or a pipeline, culvert,
  dam, canal, or other system for water, sewage, stormwater, or flood control and does not include the
  replacement or repair of existing infrastructure on private property.

  PURCHASE ORDER: A procurement document issued by the purchaser to formalize a purchasing
  transaction (contract) with a supplier. A purchase order encumbers funds (sets asides, assures, or
  reserves funds for a particular purchase from an approved budget account). A purchase order is sent
  to a supplier to initiate or "place" an order.
http://www.sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/index.php?book_id=1002                                               2/15
 3/29/2018                                                         Sterling Codifiers, lnc.



   REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP): An alternative method to sealed bids. A procurement document
   used for seeking competition for a purchase when the needs of the buyer cannot be clearly expressed
   or described within a written specification and cost is just one (1) of several criteria necessary to make
   a procurement decision. Proposals are usually used to purchase professional or human services, or
   high technology "slate of the art" equipment. Proposals are generally not appropriate for construction
   projects.

   REQUEST FOR QUOTES (RFQ): A document used for seeking informal competition on small
   expenditure purchases. RFQs are usually solicited by telephone, fax, or email.

  REQUISITION: A. An internal document by which a department notifies the Purchasing Agent of items
  that are needed. The requisition should list the item (or items) needed, the quantity, the account
  number(s), and the department director's approval to proceed with the purchase. The requisition "pre­
  encumbers" funds (determines if funds are available for a particular purchase from an approved
  budget account); or


       B. A request submitted to the Purchasing Agent or Finance Department for requesting payment on
         a previously accrued obligation.


  RESPONSIVE AND RESPONSIBLE BIDDER: A supplier or seller who has submitted a bid that
  conforms in all material aspects to the bid specifications (responsive), and who has the capability in all
  respects to perform in full the contract or purchase order requirements in a timely manner
  (responsible).

  SEALED BIDS: Also called an invitation for bids (IFB).

  SERVICES: The furnishing of labor, time, or effort by a contractor, not involving the delivery of a
  specific end product other than reports that are merely incidental to the required performance.
  "Services" does not include employment agreements or collective bargaining agreements.

  SOLE SOURCE PROCUREMENT: The procurement of supplies or services that are only available
  from a single supplier or manufacturer.

  SOLICITATION: The process of notifying prospective bidders that the City wishes to receive quotes,
  bids, or proposals for supplies or services. The process may consist of public advertising, distribution
  quotes, bids, or proposals to prospective bidders.

  SUPPLIES: All personal property, including but not limited to goods, equipment, materials, and
  printing. (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)




  3-3-030: PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY:


  The City Council is authorized to approve all procurement and delegates this authority as outlined
  below.




http://www.sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/index.php?book_id=1002                                             3/15
3/2912018                                                            Sterling Codifiers, lnc.

   A. The Mayor may sign contracts as specifically authorized in advance by the City Council in
      accordance with procedures set forth in the Utah Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Utah Cities, as
      amended.



   B. The City Manager may purchase supplies, services, or construction materials in accordance with
      the procedures set forth in this chapter and may sign contracts and agreements pertaining thereto.
      The City Manager shall update the City Council on a monthly basis regarding construction project
      expenditures and large expenditures.



  C. Department directors and the Purchasing Agent may purchase supplies and services in
     accordance with procedures set forth in this chapter, and may sign the contracts and agreements
     pertaining thereto which do not exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), are funded in
     the City budget, are competitively bid, and are reviewed by the Finance Director or designee.



  D. The Public Works Director or the Parks and Recreation Director, as applicable, may oversee the
     procurement involved with construction projects, and may sign the contracts and agreements
     pertaining thereto that are funded in the City budget, are competitively bid, and are reviewed by the
     Finance Director or designee.



  E. Any City employee shall have authority to purchase supplies not to exceed twofive thousand
     dollars ($2,000.005,000.00) in accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter, if
     previously approved by the department director. (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)




  3-3-040: PURCHASING AGENT:


  A. The City Manager shall designate a Purchasing Agent for the City. The Purchasing Agent shall act
     under the direct supervision of the Finance Director.



  B. The Purchasing Agent or designee shall perform the duties as assigned by the Finance Director,
     which duties shall include:

       1. Administering and interpreting the Procurement Code in accordance with any applicable
          Federal, State and Local laws, and Finance Department policies and procedures for carrying out
          the provisions of this chapter.

       2. Procuring or supervising the procurement of all supplies and services needed by the City,
          including preparation of specifications, and negotiation and signing of procurement contracts and
          issuing purchase orders.

       3. Exercising general supervision and control over all inventories or supplies of the City and the
          inspection of and accounting for all such inventories or supplies.
http:I/www.sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/index.php?book_id:::1002                                          4115
3/29/2018                                              Sterling Codifiers, Inc.

       4. Preparing and maintaining forms and reports as are reasonably necessary to the operation of
          this chapter and other rules and regulations of the City.

       5. Keeping generally informed of current developments in the field of procurement, including but
          not limited to market conditions and new products.

       6. Providing a copy of all contracts and agreements to the City Recorder immediately upon their
          execution.

       7. Administering the sale, trade, exchange, or disposal of the City's surplus personal property.
          (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)




  3-3-050: BUDGET LIMITATION:


  A. No expenditure or encumbrance shall be made for any supplies, services or construction materials
     or project for the City in excess of the funded amount in the City budget as adopted or
     subsequently amended by the City Council.



  B. Change orders in construction project contracts that cause the contract price to exceed the total
     project budget shall not be approved until reviewed and approved as a budget adjustment by the
     City Council. Change orders may be signed in accordance with section 3-3-030 of this chapter.
     (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)




 3-3-060: GENERAL PROCUREMENT RELATED EXPENDITURES:

 Procurement related expenditures for general types of supplies and services are classified as follows:


        I A. Exempt expenditures II $2,000.005,000 or less

        IB. Minor expenditures     II $2,001.005,000.01 to
                                   $5,000.0010,000.00
        IC. Small expenditures     11 $5,001.0010,000.01 to
                                   $20,000.00
       ID. Large expenditures      JI Greater than $20,000.00


 (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)




 3-3-070: PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES:
/29/2018                                                           Sterling Codifiers, Inc.

   A. General Purchasing Procedures: Except as otherwise stated below in this chapter, all procurement
      shall be made pursuant to the following general purchasing procedures:

        1. The department personnel prepare a requisition for the supplies or services that need to be
           purchased.

        2. The department director approves the requisition.

       3. The department selects a vendor or service provider according to the procedures for the type of
          expenditure, as outlined in subsections C through F of this section.

       4. The department sends the selected vendor or service provider information to the Purchasing
          Agent.

       5. The Purchasing Agent creates a purchase order and sends it to the vendor or service provider
          to place the order.

       6. Upon receipt of the vendor's invoice for payment, accounts payable shall match the invoice with
          the purchase order and issue payment.



  B. Exempt Expenditures: Exempt expenditures may be made without obtaining quotes or bids, but
     should be made with as much competition as practicable under the circumstances.

       1. The purchasing procedure for exempt expenditures is as follows:

           a. The department purchases items using a credit card, on account, or petty cash.

           b. The department prepares a requisition for the item(s) that were purchased.

           c. The department director approves the requisition.

           d. The Purchasing Agent creates a purchase order.

           e. Accounts payable matches the invoice (or receipt) with the purchase order and issues a
              payment check to the vendor.



  C. Minor Expenditures: In order to select a vendor or service provider for minor expenditures, the
     department or Purchasing Agent shall solicit at least three (3) written or verbal price quotes and
     shall provide documentation of said price quotes to the Purchasing Agent as required in subsection
     A4 of this section, or by selecting a vendor or service provider pursuant to a State of Utah or other
     governmental entity cooperative contract.



  D. Small Expenditures: In order to select a vendor or service provider for small expenditures, the
     Purchasing Agent or designee shall obtain and document price quotes by obtaining written or
     verbal quotes or bids, or by making the purchase pursuant to a State of Utah or other
     governmental entity cooperative contract.




http://www.sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/index.php?book_id=1002                                         6/15
 3129/2018                                                         Sterling Codifiers, Inc.

   E. Large Expenditures: In order to select a vendor for large expenditures the Purchasing Agent
      obtains bids or proposals using any of the following methods: invitation for bids, request for
      proposals, or by making the purchase pursuant to a State of Utah or other governmental entity
       cooperative contract.



   F. Selection Procedures:

        1. Evaluating Invitation For Bids And Request For Quotes: Bids and quotes shall be evaluated
           within a reasonable time by the Purchasing Agent or designee to determine the lowest
           responsive and responsible bidder, whose bid or quote conforms in all material aspects to the
           bid or quote specifications, and who has the capacity in all respects to perform in full the contract
           or purchase order requirements in a timely manner. The Purchasing Agent or designee may not
           use criteria not described in the invitation for bids or request for quotes to evaluate a bid or
           quote.

        2. Evaluating Request For Proposals: Proposals shall be evaluated within a reasonable time by an
           Evaluation Committee comprised of at least three (3) City employees to determine which
           proposal provides the best value to the City. The Evaluation Committee shall evaluate each
           responsive and responsible proposal, whose proposal conforms in all material aspects to the
           proposal specifications, and who has the capacity in all respects to perform in full the contract or
           purchase order requirements in a timely manner. Evaluation criteria for a proposal may include
           items such as experience, qualifications, approach to the project, references, management
           plans, schedule of delivery, cost, and other subjective or objective criteria. At any time during the
           evaluation process, the Evaluation Committee may request additional information from a
           proposer or proposers, including oral interviews or presentations. Criteria not described in the
           request for proposals may not be used to evaluate a proposal.

       3. Tie Bids: If two (2) or more bids received are for the same total amount or unit price, quality and
          service being equal, and if the public interest will not permit the delay of re-soliciting bids, the
          Purchasing Agent shall resolve a tie bid by resolving the tie in favor of:

          a. The bidder closest to the point of delivery;

          b. The bidder who received the previous award;

          c. The bidder who will provide the earliest delivery date;

          d. By drawing lots; or

          e. Any other reasonable method.

       4. Single Bids: In the event that only one (1) bid is received, the Purchasing Agent shall determine
          whether it is in the best interests of the City to re-solicit for additional bids, or proceed with a
          procurement award using the single bid received.

       5. No bids Or Proposals: In the event no bids or proposals are received, the Purchasing Agent
          shall determine whether the delay of re-soliciting bids or proposals will be detrimental to the
          public interest. If a delay in re-soliciting bids or proposals would be detrimental to the public
          interest, the Purchasing Agent may purchase the supplies or services without obtaining quotes
          or proposals, but with as much competition as practicable under the circumstances. (Ord. 1257,
          5-2-2017)



http://www.sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/index.php?book_id=1002                                                 7115
3/2912018                                                          Sterling-Codifiers, Inc.

   3-3-080: SPECIAL TYPES OF EXPENDITURES:


   A. Professional Services: Professional services are expenditures that, by their nature, are not
      reasonably adapted to award by competitive bidding. The City Manager or designee shall award
      professional services contracts at his discretion based on an evaluation of the provider's
      professional qualifications, service ability, experience, cost of services, and other applicable
      criteria. Professional services may include, but not be limited to, the services of financial and legal
      advisors, architects, engineers, accountants, physicians, dentists, veterinarians, trainers and
      similar professional services.

       1. A contract for professional services for less than or equal to tentwenty thousand dollars
          ($10,000.0020,000.00) may be awarded without obtaining quotes, bids, or proposals, but
          should be made with as much competition as practicable under the circumstances.

       2. A contract for professional services exceeding twenty thousand dollars
          ($10,000.0020,000.00) may be awarded after the Purchasing Agent or department solicits
          qualifications and billing rates from providers using a Request for Statements of
          Qualifications (RFSQ), and creates a list of pre­ qualified providers. The department
          evaluates the RFSQs and selects a provider based on demonstrated competence,
          qualifications, and fair and reasonable billing rates.

       3. A department may proceed with the purchase of professional services according to the terms
          and conditions of an existing City contract.

       4. With the City Manager's approval, the City Attorney may retain outside legal counsel and
          experts necessary to assist the City in prosecuting or defending lawsuits and claims without
          obtaining quotes, bids, or proposals.



  B. Construction Projects: The following provisions are applicable to all construction projects:

       1. Public Works Director And Parks And Recreation Director Responsible: Unless otherwise
          determined by the City Manager, the Public Works Director or the Parks and Recreation Director,
          as applicable, shall be responsible for the procurement of all construction projects for the City.

       2. Dividing The Cost Of A Construction Project: The cost of a construction project may not be
          divided to avoid exceeding the bid limit. However, the cost of a construction project that exceeds
          the bid limit may be divided if the selection procedures comply with the requirements of this
          chapter with respect to each part of the construction project that results from dividing the cost.

       3. Bid Security: Contracts for construction projects may provide for a bid security in the amount
          equal to at least five percent (5%) of the amount of the bid.

       4. Advertising: Advertising for construction projects shall comply with section 3-3-090 of this
          chapter.

       5. Rejection: The Public Works Director or Parks and Recreation Director, as applicable, may
          reject any and all bids if deemed to be in the best interests of the City.



  C. Building Improvement And Public Works Projects:


http://www.sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/index.php?book_id=1002                                                8115
3/29/2018                                                          Sterling Codifiers, Inc.

       1. Annual Calculation Of Bid Limit: Each January the Finance Director shall establish the bid limit
          for the upcoming calendar year using the formula established in the definition of "bid limit".

        2. Estimated Cost Below The Bid Limit: If the estimated cost of the building improvement or public
           works project is less than the bid limit, the City may complete the improvements or project in­
           house without calling for bids or the Public Works Director or Parks and Recreation Director may
           invite bids from at least three (3) potential, responsible providers of type of construction needed.
           Such invitations may be made in writing or orally, including by telephone, and shall be made
           without unfair favoritism or bias. The Public Works Director or Parks and Recreation Director
           shall keep a record of all invitations and bids made hereunder. Otherwise, expenditures shall be
           made pursuant to the procedures set forth in subsection 3-3-0?0E of this chapter.

       3. Estimated Cost Exceeding The Bid Limit: Except as otherwise provided herein, any expenditure
          of the City for a building improvement or public works project that exceeds the bid limit shall be
          made pursuant to the procedures set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 11-39-101, et seq.,
          as amended.



  D. Class C Road Improvement Project: Any Class C road improvement project that is wholly or
     partially funded by Class C road funds shall be procured as required by the Utah Code Annotated
     section 72-6-108 and 109, as amended, which is hereby adopted by reference.



  E. Emergency Procurement: An emergency condition is a condition or unforeseen circumstances that
     creates an immediate or imminent threat to the public's health, welfare, safety, or property. The
     existence of an emergency condition may create an immediate and serious need for supplies,
     services, repairs, and/or construction that cannot be met through normal procurement methods
     and policy (i.e., an emergency procurement). An emergency procurement of supplies, services,
     repairs, and/or construction shall be made using as much competition as practical under the
     circumstances by the Purchasing Agent, the Public Works Director, the Parks and Recreation
     Director, or the City Manager or his designee. Emergency procurements shall be limited to only
     those supplies, services, repairs, and/or construction necessary to mitigate the emergency.



  F. Sole Source Procurement: The Purchasing Agent may approve a sole source procurement, without
      competition, when the Purchasing Agent determines that there is only one (1) source for the
      required item or service to be purchased; or the award is a condition of a donation or grant that will
      fund the full cost of the purchase. Examples of potential reasons for sole source procurements
      include, but are not limited to the compatibility of equipment, accessories, replacement parts,
      maintenance, or service is the paramount consideration; trial use or testing; procurement of items
      for resale; procurement of public utility service; or unique properties of the sole source. The
      Purchasing Agent may verify a sole source by putting the sole source item out to bid.



  G. Procurement Under City, County, State, Or Federal Contracts Or Pre-Qualified Lists: An
     expenditure for which requests for qualifications, competitive bidding or price negotiation according
     to a procedure comparable to the City's process has already occurred at the City, County, State or
     Federal level may be made without further bidding.




http://www.sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/index.php?book_id=1002                                              9/15
3/29/2018                                                          Sterling Codifiers, Inc.

   H. Procurement Under lnterlocal Contracts: An expenditure made in conjunction with an interlocal
      agreement between the City and another governmental entity in compliance with the lnterlocal
      Cooperation Act, Utah Code title 11, chapter 13, may be made without further bidding.



  I. Expenditures To Resolve Claims Or Lawsuits: Expenditures to resolve claims or lawsuits against or
       by the City may be made without obtaining quotes or bids, but should be made with as much
       competition as practicable under the circumstances. (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)




  3-3-090: ADVERTISING REQUIREMENTS:


  All procurement solicitations shall conform to the following advertising requirements, as applicable.
  Unless otherwise stated, procurement solicitations may be posted in E-Procurement websites rather
  than advertised in a printed medium.



  A. All invitations for bids and requests for proposals shall be advertised a minimum of five (5) days in
     advance of the bid due date at least once in a generally and widely available medium, which may
     include newspapers, business journals or posted on an E-Procurement website.



  B. All invitations for bids for building improvement and public works projects shall be published at least
     twice in a newspaper published or of general circulation in the City at least five (5) days before
     opening the bids; and in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 45-1-101, as amended, at
     least five (5) days before opening the bids.



  C. All invitations for bids for Class C road improvement projects shall be advertised at least once a
     week for three (3) consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation; and in accordance
     with Utah Code Annotated section 45-1-101, as amended, for three (3) weeks.



  D. Notice for the sale of surplus personal property shall be advertised at least ten (10) days prior to
     the sale or opening of bids at least once in a newspaper of general circulation; or posted on a
     public surplus company website. The notice shall describe the property to be sold, the terms of
     sale and the place and time of such sale or bid opening.



  E. Notice for the surplussing of real property shall be provided at least fourteen (14) days before the
     opportunity for public comment by: posting the property with notice of the consideration of
     designating it surplus; and mailing notice to each owner of real property within three hundred feet
     (300') of the property that is the subject of the proposed disposition as shown on the last
     assessment rolls of the County in which the property is located. (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)



http://www.sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/index.php?book_id=1002                                            10/15
3/2912018                                                          Sterling Codifiers, Inc.

   3-3-100: PROCUREMENT CONTRACTS:



   A. The City may award exclusive and nonexclusive contracts. Unless a contract specifically states ii is
      exclusive, it shall be deemed nonexclusive. "Nonexclusive" means that the City may award a
      contract to more than one (1) contractor for similar supplies or services, as it deems appropriate.



  B. A contract for supplies, .services, or construction materials must have a stated end date and may be
     entered into for any stated period of time deemed to be in the best interest of the City; provided,
     that the term of the contract and the conditions of renewal or extension, if any, are included in the
     solicitation. No contract may be renewed indefinitely.



  C. Payment and performance obligations for succeeding fiscal periods shall be subject to the
     availability and appropriations of funds by the City Council.



  D. Contracts and purchase orders may be amended, modified or supplemented only by written
     amendment to the contract or purchase order, executed by the parties to the contract.



  E. Authority to sign procurement contracts is as established in sections 3-3-030 and 3-3-040 of this
     chapter.



  F. The City Recorder shall countersign all contracts made on behalf of the City or to which the City is a
      party. Department directors shall provide the City Recorder with a fully conformed original copy of
      all procurement contracts upon their execution. The City Recorder shall maintain a properly
      indexed record of all contracts.



  G. The City Attorney shall review and approve all contracts as to form. (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)




  3-3-110: PROTEST OF SPECIFICATIONS OR AWARD OF PROCUREMENT
  CONTRACT:

  Any actual or prospective bidder, offeror or contractor who is aggrieved with the solicitation or award
  of a procurement contract may protest to the City Purchasing Agent.



  A. Protest Of Specifications: A protest regarding the specifications of a solicitation must be submitted
     in writing to the Purchasing Agent prior to the opening of the bid and must list the pertinent facts
     giving rise to the protest.
http://www.sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/index.php?book_id=1002                                            11/15
3/2912018                                                            Sterling Codifiers, Inc.




   B. Protest Of Contract Or Purchase Award: A protest regarding the award of a procurement contract
      or purchase award must be submitted in writing to the Purchasing Agent within five (5) business
      days of the award of a procurement contract or purchase award and must list the pertinent facts
      giving rise to the protest. Untimely protests will not be considered.



   C. Stay Of Proceedings: In the event of a timely protest, the City shall not proceed further with the
      solicitation or with the award of the contract or purchase order until the protest is sustained or
      rejected by the Purchasing Agent, unless an immediate award of the contract is required to protect
      substantial interests of the City.



  D. Protest Review: The Purchasing Agent shall determine if the protest is timely filed. If the
     Purchasing Agent determines the protest is timely filed, he shall dismiss the protest if he
     determines the protest alleges facts, if true, do not provide an adequate basis for the protest.
     Otherwise, the Purchasing Agent shall uphold the protest. (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)




  3-3-120: DELIVERY OF SUPPLIES:

  When supplies are delivered, the Purchasing Agent or the employee who requested the supplies shall
  inspect the supplies received to assure that the correct quantity and quality have been delivered. If the
  supplies delivered are satisfactory, the supplies shall be accepted and a copy of the packing slip,
  invoice, or other delivery document shall be stapled to a copy of the purchase order and forwarded to
  accounts payable for review, payment, and filing. (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)




  3-3-130: PETTY CASH:


  The Finance Department may maintain a Petty Cash Fund not to exceed five hundred dollars
  ($500.00) that shall be kept in a locked box.



  A. Limits: Any employee of the City may receive up to fifty dollars ($50.00) from the Petty Cash Fund
     for any lawful and necessary expenditure to be made on behalf of the City. Employees shall not
     receive any money from the Petty Cash Fund for personal use.



  B. Procedure: Any employee receiving money from the Petty Cash Fund shall sign a petty cash
     voucher showing the amount received and an explanation of the intended use of the money. Within
     one (1) business day after making the expenditure, the employee shall return any excess money to
     the Petty Cash Fund and staple the itemized receipt for the expenditure to the petty cash voucher.


http://www.sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/index.php?book_id:::1002                                        12115
3/29/2018                                                          Sterling Codifiers, Inc.

   C. Replenishing Fund: When money in the Petty Cash Fund becomes less than one hundred dollars
      ($100.00), the Treasurer shall draft a check to the Petty Cash Fund to raise the amount of currency
      in the fund to five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)




   3-3-140: INVENTORY MANAGEMENT:


   Department directors shall exercise supervision of all inventories of tangible City property within the
   control of or assigned to their departments. All City property located in warehouses and similar
   storage areas shall be inventoried annually, and accountability for the property shall reside with the
   respective department director. (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)




  3-3-150: DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY:



  A. Whenever City personal property is no longer needed by the department possessing the property,
     the department director having control of such property shall notify the City Manager or designee.
     The City Manager or designee shall notify other City departments of the availability of such
     property. If requested, the City Manager or designee shall supervise the transfer of such property
     to the department requesting the property.



  B. If City personal property becomes surplus, unused, obsolete, unsuitable for public use, or otherwise
      no longer needed, the property shall be disposed of in accordance with this section.

       1. City personal property that is included in the fixed asset register (with an original value greater
          than $5,000.00), shall not be disposed of, or sold through public auction, until such property is
          declared surplus by the City Council pursuant to its administrative authority. Once this property is
          declared surplus by the City Council, it may be sold to the highest bidder by the Purchasing
          Agent through an approved public auction service provider.

       2. City personal property that was not originally included in the fixed asset register, and/or is
          reasonably expected to raise less than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) through
          public auction, may be sold to the highest bidder by the Purchasing Agent through an approved
          public auction service provider.

       3. The City Manager or his designee shall be responsible for conducting public auctions for City
          personal property that was not originally included in the fixed asset register, and/or is reasonably
          expected to raise more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) through public
          auction. The City Manager shall have the right to reject any bids or offers for City personal
          property when he deems it to be in the best interest of the City.

       4. If a surplus item remains unsold after reasonable attempts to sell it through public auction, the
          City Manager may sell the surplus item to any person for such price as the City Manager deems
          appropriate, or may dispose of the item at his discretion.



http://www.sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/index.php?book_id=1002                                             13/15
3/29/2018                                                            Sterling Codifiers, Inc.

  C. City personal property or items that are fully consumed in their use for official City business shall be
     disposed of in any reasonable manner approved by the Purchasing Agent.



  D. Monetary proceeds from the sale or other disposition of items pursuant to this section shall be
     credited to the fund sundry account.



  E. Where City personal property is of such a size, shape, or is so unique as to be unmarketable, the
     above requirements may be waived and such property may be sold or otherwise disposed of in
     any reasonable manner, with the approval of the City Council. (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)




  3-3-160: DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS REAL PROPERTY:

  The City Council may exercise its executive authority and authorize by resolution the disposal,
  including by sale, lease, or other lawful manner, of real property for the benefit of the City as provided
  by Utah Code Annotated section 10-8-2, as amended. A significant parcel of real property is a parcel
  greater than one (1) acre or that has a reasonable value in excess of one hundred thousand dollars
  ($100,000.00).



  A. The City Manager shall make an initial determination that real property is surplus. Surplus real
     property may include real property that is not needed for City infrastructure, property where the
     cost to maintain the property outweigh its value to the City, is part of a property trade that will
     benefit the City, the sale of which will realize significant financial benefits to the City, or the disposal
     of which is otherwise in the public interest.



  B. Before the City may dispose of a significant parcel of real property, the City shall provide notice as
     required in subsection 3-3-090D of this chapter; and hold a public meeting at which the City
     Council accepts public comment on the proposed disposition.



  C. All disposal, leases, or subleases of such real property of the City other than a significant parcel of
     real property, shall be made, as nearly as possible, under the same conditions and limitations as
     required by this chapter for the purchase of property including notice and bidding procedures.



  D. The City Council may also authorize at its discretion and under such terms and conditions as it may
     deem desirable, fair and appropriate, considering intended use, property tax value and the
     interests of the City, the sale of any surplus property, through public auction or other method
     designed to best serve the interests of City residents and produce a fair return; the trade or
     exchange or any surplus property; and the lease or sublease of any surplus property. (Ord. 1257,
     5-2-2017)


http://www.sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/index.php?book_id:::1002                                             14/15
3/29/2018                                             Sterling Codifiers, Inc.

  3-3-170: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:



  A. Manipulation Prohibited: Purchases shall not be manipulated or artificially divided to fall within the
     exempt expenditure category, or to avoid using standard purchasing methods and policies.



  B. Personal Purchases: Personal purchases of any type on a City issued credit or purchasing card are
     strictly prohibited. (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)




  3-3-180: VIOLATIONS:

 Any purchase or contract executed in violation of the provisions of this chapter or applicable State law
 shall be void as to the City, and any funds expended thereupon may be recovered by the City through
 appropriate action. (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)




 3-3-190: APPEALS:

 Any person aggrieved of a determination of the Purchasing Agent decision in connection with the
 provisions of this chapter may appeal the determination or action within five (5) business days from
 the Purchasing Agent's decision by filing a written protest to the City Recorder and the reasons
 therefor with the City Council. (Ord. 1257, 5-2-2017)       15115
