                            Development Review Committee
                                 1020 East Pioneer Road
                                   Draper, UT 84020
                                    January 4, 2022

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: January 13, 2022

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, Todd.Draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     City Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendment Request#2
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-0203-2021
        Applicant:        Draper City
        Project Location: City Wide
        Current Zoning: City Wide
        Acreage:          City Wide
        Request:          Request for approval of a Text Amendment in order to modify
                          Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Sections 9-3-040, 9-11-070, 9-
                          22-030, 9-22-040, 9-22-050, 9-25-050, 9-25-080, 9-27-120, and to
                          enact 17-5-035 for the purpose of amending regulations
                          pertaining to definitions, special regulations in commercial zones,
                          deviations from design standards, building design, site design,
                          parking location, parking area design and construction, height
                          limitations and exceptions, cross access and connectivity, and
                          other typographical and de minimis corrections.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment that includes multiple
changes to Titles 9 and 17 of the DCMC including changes to definitions, special regulations
in commercial zones, deviations from design standards, building design, site design,
parking location, parking area design and construction, height limitations and exceptions,
cross access and connectivity and other typographical and de minimis corrections.




City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                         App. #TEXTMAP-0203-2021
Text Amendment Request #2                     1
A Notice of Intent to amend the Draper City Municipal Code pertaining to cross access
between commercial developments, access points, road connections, height deviations for
commercial properties, and helipads was posted and mailed on November 11, 2021. The
notice for the public hearing of this application was made on December 30, 2021. Both
notices included notice of intended regulations for helipads. Helipad provisions were
ultimately not included in the legislative text of this ordinance and instead will be
addressed in a separate text amendment application.



ANALYSIS
Text Amendments. This report will review the modifications being proposed. The legislative
copy of the changes can be found in Exhibit B of this report. Additions to the text are
indicated in blue, deletions in red, and unchanged text in black.

DCMC Section 9-3-040: Definitions: A definition of abut or abutting is proposed to be added
to define the meaning of the term as used throughout the land use and development code.

A small modification to the term Mixed Use Center is proposed to drop the word Center
from the definition term as the term is not used within the code, but the term Mixed Use is
used. The definition of the term references the definition of Planned Center and
functionally remains the same.

DCMC Section 9-11-070: Special Regulations: The proposed changes include better defining
and limiting the scope of what structures and building elements may apply for and receive
a deviation from the established height limits in commercial zones. The CN and TC zones
are currently excluded from requesting deviations under this section and the proposed
ordinance language would maintain this exclusion. The proposed limitations for all other
commercial zones mimic those of the TC zone.

Under the proposed changes the maximum amount of a height deviation that can be
granted for an architectural feature of the building is fourteen feet (14’). The architectural
feature also cannot exceed an area greater than ten-percent (10%) of the gross floor area
of the uppermost story of the building, and cannot create additional habitable area or
usable building floor space. The deviation standards continue to require additional
architectural detailing of the building, however the current design criteria in ordinance are
proposed to be amended to provide greater clarity and definition of the specifically desired
design elements being sought. These changes will eliminate the option to request
additional height which allows additional stories and floor area in a building.

DCMC Section 9-22-030: Deviation from Design Standards: The proposed modification clarifies
which sections of the Chapter contain design standards from which a deviation from the
Planning Commission may be sought, and removes the height and roofline standards of
DCMC Section 9-22-040(D) from consideration for a deviation under the Section. The



City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                         App. #TEXTMAP-0203-2021
Text Amendment Request #2                     2
criteria have also been clarified.

DCMC Section 9-22-040: Building Design: Modifications to Subsection D of this Section are
proposed for the purpose of removing subjective and unenforceable provisions, clarifying
that parts of a building projecting beyond the roofline must use materials and colors
similar to the rest of the building, and enhancing the requirements for the screening of
roof mounted mechanical equipment and systems. As the proposed language for DCMC
Section 9-22-030 would remove the ability to request deviations from this Subsection,
regulations governing the allowance of additional building height for the screen walls, up to
a maximum of fourteen feet (14’), is included in the proposed changes to this Subsection.

DCMC Section 9-22-050: Site Design: Proposed modifications to Subsection F of this section
include removing some subjective and unenforceable provisions of the ordinance
language, the addition of requirements to provide cross access and connectivity between
sites, replacing the outdated term deadmen with the more appropriate description of
wheel stops, and clarifying that the purpose of providing wheel stops is to maintain the
minimum five feet (5’) of free travel width on pedestrian walkways. An additional
subsection is proposed that sets standards for providing and requiring cross access and
connectivity between abutting and neighboring nonresidential and mixed use
developments.

DCMC Section 9-25-050: Parking Location: Proposed modifications to Subsection J of this
Section includes a change in the language to require compliance with the ordinance rather
than strong encouragement of compliance and reinforces the need to provide cross access
between existing and anticipated abutting and neighboring developments. The proposal
elevates the current suggestion to place parking away from streets and between buildings
to the level of a requirement to do so to the greatest extent possible.

DCMC Section 9-25-080: Parking Area Design and Construction: Subsection E of this section
deals with Cross access requirements. Proposed modifications to the ordinance include a
clarification that cross access is required between mixed use developments as well as
nonresidential developments, that perpetual easements for cross access are required, that
the access drive providing cross access must be paved, and that the cross access may not
be gated. Additional modifications are proposed to better clarify the circumstances under
which the Planning Commission may allow for a deviation from ordinance to not provide
cross access.

DCMC Section 9-27-120: Subsection B of this Section is proposed to be amended so that the
height of integral architectural features of churches or other places of worship such as
spires, towers, belfries, cupolas and domes not used for human occupancy is not
restricted. The indiscriminate allowance for other features listed to exceed the height limits
of the applicable zone is proposed to be removed. Height exceptions for rooftop
mechanical equipment and systems proposed to be removed from this Subsection are



City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                         App. #TEXTMAP-0203-2021
Text Amendment Request #2                     3
proposed for inclusion into DCMC Section 9-22-040.

DCMC Section 17-5-035: Cross Access: This new section is proposed to be enacted so that
easements for cross access between properties with nonresidential and mixed use
development will be shown and recorded with any subdivision plat for the same.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Text Amendment
request is found in Sections 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

        2. Text Amendments:
             a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                 of the city's general plan;
             b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                 zoning ordinance;
             c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                 and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
             d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
                 of this title or the general plan;
             e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
                 and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                 represents an overall community benefit; and
             f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
                 professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text



City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                            App. #TEXTMAP-0203-2021
Text Amendment Request #2                       4
Amendment submission. The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City
ordinances. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                the city's general plan;
        2.      The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                zoning ordinance;
        3.      The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
        4.      The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
                part of this title or the general plan;
        5.      The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                represents an overall community benefit; and
        6.      The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                policies of the city's general plan;
        2.      The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements
                of the zoning ordinance;
        3.      The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the
                request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the
                zoning ordinance;
        4.      The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part
                of this title or the general plan;
        5.      The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does
                not represent an overall community benefit; and




City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                            App. #TEXTMAP-0203-2021
Text Amendment Request #2                       5
        6.      The proposed text amendment does not implement best current,
                professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated
2021 Bulk Text Amendment #2, application TEXTMAP-0203-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 4, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City
Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendment #2, application TEXTMAP-0203-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 4, 2022 and
as modified by the findings and conditions below:

1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated 2021
Bulk Text Amendment #2, application TEXTMAP-0203-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 4, 2022.




City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                          App. #TEXTMAP-0203-2021
Text Amendment Request #2                      6
                                   EXHIBIT A
                              DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

   1. The proposed modifications provide needed updates to Titles 9 and 17 of the
      Draper City Municipal Code. Adopting the proposed changes will improve the
      functionality of the ordinance.
                                     EXHIBIT B
                                 LEGISLATIVE DRAFT

9-3-040

ABUT OR ABUTTING: Contiguous with or sharing a common property line,
boundary, or border.

…

MIXED USE CENTER: See definition of Planned Center.

…



9-11-070: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:

    A. Increased Height Limits: Notwithstanding the height limitations shown in
       section 9-11-110, table 9-11-2 of this chapter, greater building height may be
       allowed in all commercial zones, except the CN and TC zones, pursuant to
       approval of a deviation by the planning commission. The planning
       commission may approve deviations from the height limitations in section 9-
       11-110, table 9-11-2 of this chapter for architectural features of buildings
       such as; towers, spires, chimneys, and clocks. A deviation under this section
       is not permitted for properties in the CN and TC zones. Any deviation
       Deviations approved under this section shall meet the following standards:

       1. The overall proposed height of the architectural feature shall not have a
          material adverse effect upon the character of the area or the public
          health, safety and general welfare not exceed fourteen feet (14') above
          the applicable building height limitations of section 9-11-110, table 9-11-2.

       2. The proposed height shall be constructed and arranged so as to be
          compatible with the use and development of neighboring properties with
          respect to scale and massingThe deviation shall not create a detrimental
          impact to public health, safety, or general welfare.

       3. The building will be designed to relate to the human scale and
          incorporate at least one of the following:

          a. Architectural detailing included on the ground floor to emphasize the
             pedestrian level of the building, including, but not limited to,
             intermediate cornice line, sign band, awnings or portico feature,
             change in building materials, and window shape.
        b. Include architectural detailing at the cornice level or accentuated
           building zones, when appropriate to the architectural style of the
           building.

        c. The roofline contains architectural features that give it a distinctive
           form or skyline, or the rooftop is designed for purposes such as
           rooftop gardens, common space for building occupants or the public,
           viewing platforms, shading or daylighting structures, renewable energy
           systems, and other similar uses.

     3. The overall area of the architectural feature may not exceed ten-percent
        (10%) of the gross floor area of the uppermost story of the building.

     4. The architectural feature shall not create additional habitable area or
        usable building floor space.

     5. The overall building design shall incorporate one or more of the following:

           a. Architectural details that emphasize the pedestrian level of the
              building, including but not limited to, a cordon or belt course, sign
              band, awnings or porticos, a change in building materials, or a
              change in window shapes;

           b. Architectural detailing of the façade that includes a projecting
              cornice at the roofline and cordons or belt courses between floors,
              or accentuated building façade zones, as fitting to the architectural
              style of the building; or

           c. Other architectural features at the roof level that create a
              distinctive form or skyline, including, but not limited to, rooftop
              gardens, viewing platforms, shading or daylighting structures,
              renewable energy systems, and other similar features.



9-22-030: DEVIATION FROM DESIGN STANDARDS:

  A. Purpose: In the event anAn applicant may requests a deviations from the
     development design standards of sections 9-22-040 and 9-22-050 of this
     chapter with the exception of the height and roofline design standards of
     subsection 9-22-040(D) and has submitted a project that contains features
     and excellence in design above and beyond those required, the planning
     commission shall have the discretion to amend some or all of the design
     standards, as long as such deviation is consistent with the purpose and
   intent of the policies and development standards pertaining to the applicable
   zoning district or land use category as described in this chapter.

B. Deviation Criteria Threshold: The planning commission shall take into
   consideration at least three (3) of the following criteria in considering a
   deviation of design standards Proposed developments requesting a
   deviation under this section shall meet at least three (3) of the following
   criteria:

   1. The project contains proposed development includes additional
      amenities such as or pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is
      otherwise required in the development code and site plan review.

   2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open
      space area provided within the proposed development exceeds the
      required amounts by more than ten percent (10%).

   3. The project proposed development is a transit oriented development
      (TOD) and provides direct connectivity for active transportation methods
      to a transportation facility.

   4. Traffic impacts on the neighborhood are lessened The traffic impacts of
      the proposed development will be mitigated through programs, such as
      creative design, traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit
      pass programs, or other similar measures.

   5. The project is proposed development is designed to meetan accredited
      LEED certification standardsdevelopment.

   6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any
      applicable master plan or ordinance.

   7. 6. The project proposed development is required to create a consistent
       and compatible design in cases which involves redeveloped buildings,
       additions to existing buildings, minor structures being added to a site, or
       is a new buildings within a previously approved phased project
       development and the deviation is necessary to create a consistency with
       other existing buildings.

   8.7. Additional landscape plant material is provided Additional trees, shrubs,
      and plantings (excluding lawn, turf, and groundcovers) are provided in the
      proposed development plans in excess of required amounts by more
      than in an amount at least ten percent (10%) more than the minimum
      required, including additional planting beds, plants, trees or a
      combination thereof.

   9.8. The building design is designed by a licensed architect in a specific
      architectural style, such as contemporary or modern, which that utilizes
      facade materials differently then than prescribed in subsection 9-22-
      040(F) of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.

   10.9. The amount of primary materials used for a each building facade is at
      least exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%)
      greater than the minimum required amount.

C. Request Responsibility: The applicant shall demonstrate to the planning
   commission the benefit of amending the standards of this chapter that the
   development application meets three (3) or more of the criteria of subsection
   9-22-030(B) above and that the deviations benefit the city by:

   1. Providing a written description and analysis of the specific development
      design standards proposed to be lessened and an analysis of the
      development proposal against the selected criteria from subsection 9-22-
      030(B) above. The analysis shall be written by a licensed professional,
      such as an architect, engineer or landscape architect;

   2. Providing a written justification as to why the city should lessen or alter
      its design standards indicating any benefit to the city and general public
      or to the project.

D. Findings Required: The planning commission may approve deviations from
   the development design standards listed in this chapter only if it finds, based
   upon a finding of facts as stated in subsection B of this section, that the
   deviation is in the benefit of the health, safety and welfare of the city and the
   project.:

   1. That the proposed development contains design features above and
      beyond those required by ordinance;

   2. That the requested deviation is consistent with the purpose and intent of
      the policies and development standards pertaining to the applicable
      zoning district or land use category; and

   3. That at least three (3) of the criteria listed in 9-22-030(B) have been met;
9-22-040: BUILDING DESIGN:

…

    D. Height And Roofline: All buildings shall demonstrate an appropriate roof
       height that is compatible with the building's location, and vary rooflines in
       order to add architectural interest and avoid the appearance or sense of
       monotonous roofline expanses. All buildings shallby:

       1. Demonstrate appropriate roof height for the location based on zoning
          regulations and the height of buildings within the immediate area;

       2.1. ProvideProviding roofline and parapet variations where there are long,
          continuous, and undisturbed rooflines fifty feet (50') or greater;

       3. Use similarUsing materials and colors on the back of false fronts,
          parapets, cornices, or other parts of the building which extend beyond
          the roofline or main that are similar to the rest of the building so that the
          building appears cohesive from all views; and

       4. Provide forProviding visual screening of mechanical equipment and
          systems that need to be are mounted on the roof. The height of screen
          walls for mechanical equipment and systems located on the roof may
          extend above the typical building height limits in the zone, but shall not
          extend higher in elevation than the equipment being screened, or
          fourteen feet (14’), whichever is less. Screen walls permitted to extending
          above the typical height limits in the zone under this section may not be
          utilized for building signage. Any minimal portion of these pieces of the
          mechanical equipment or systems that may not be fully shieldedscreened
          from view shall be painted a color which is compatible with matches the
          roofing or parapet materials.

…



9-22-050: SITE DESIGN:

…

    F. Parking And Circulation: Lifestyle, separated land uses, and lack of sufficient
       public transit have created the need for parking and access for automobiles
       onto most commercial sites. Measures shall be taken to Applicants for
       development shall ensure that needed parking areas are designed in such a
       way as to have a minimal impact on the built environment as possible.
Vehicular and pedestrian connectivity to neighboring sites as well as cross
access between abutting sites shall be required.

1. Developments which generate significant increases in traffic should
   include an analysis of the proposed development's impact on the current
   and future transportation system, and methods to control traffic (such as
   signage, turn lanes, and traffic signals). The content of such analysis
   should follow guidelines established by the city Each application shall
   comply with the traffic impact study guidelines and related requirements
   as adopted in section 11-02-060 of this code.

2. Major internal circulation drive aisles and roadways that provide access
   from the public right of way or between buildings on the same site or
   which provide required connectivity or cross access to abutting and
   neighboring sites shall be separated from parking areas using curb and
   gutter and a combination of any of the following methods:

   a. Landscaping;

   b. Pedestrian walkways; or

   c. Lighting.

3. Pedestrian walkways shall have a minimum five foot (5') wide free travel
   width. Where deadmenwheel stops are not used to keep vehicles off the
   roadwaywalkway, a minimum of two feet (2') shall be added to the
   minimum walkway width to allow for vehicle overhang in addition to the
   five foot (5') wide free travel width. Additionally, where other
   encroachments into the walkway exist, widths of the walkways shall be
   increased to ensure the minimum five foot (5') wide free travel width.

4. Cross access for automobiles and pedestrians to future and existing
   commercial developments shall be provided during initial site planning
   and construction, and in perpetuity.

4. Nonresidential and mixed use developments shall:

   a. Provide easements for perpetual cross access for automobiles,
      emergency vehicles, and pedestrians to abutting future and existing
      nonresidential and mixed use developments;

   b. Connect to existing private or public stub streets, cross access drives,
      and pedestrian walkways that abut the property; and
          c. Extend or stub proposed streets, sidewalks, and walkways to abutting
             properties as necessary to facilitate required future cross access and
             connectivity between abutting and neighboring properties.

       5. Cross access between properties subject to this section shall be a paved
          access drive between the properties, of sufficient width and design to
          accommodate access and use by emergency vehicles as approved by the
          fire marshal, in addition to customary pedestrian and vehicular access.
          Gates are not allowed on the cross access drive between nonresidential
          and mixed use developments.

…



9-25-050: PARKING LOCATION:

…

    J. Development Parking: Parking within and between areas for nonresidential
       and mixed use developments is strongly encouraged to shall be provided in a
       manner that provides for a cohesive environment be located and designed to
       facilitate cross access between adjacent both existing and anticipated
       abutting and neighboring developments. Placement of parking for adjacent
       abutting nonresidential and mixed use developments are strongly
       encouraged to shall locate parking between the buildings and away from
       streets frontages to the greatest extent possible.

…



9-25-080: PARKING AREA DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:

…

    E. Cross Access:

       1. Cross access between existing, proposed, or anticipated nonresidential
          and mixed use developments shall be designed and provided as follows
          comply with the following standards:

          a. Parking areas associated with all nonresidential and mixed use
             developments shall be designed to accommodate cross access to
             existing and anticipated abutting and neighboring nonresidential and
     mixed use developments located on the same block or abutting on the
     same private street;

  b. Nonresidential and mixed use developments on individual parcels
     which have access onto a street of a major collector or arterial class
     shall provide cross access for parking areas to abutting and
     neighboring sites of a similar circumstance;

  c. Adjacent Abutting nonresidential or mixed use developments
     accessing a street of a major collector or arterial class shall provide a
     combined street access between sites;

  d. In the event any nonresidential or mixed use site provides, or is
     designed to provide, a combined street access with an abutting site,
     cross access between their parking areas may be waived in lieu of the
     provision the combined street access; and

  e. When cross access is to be provided, a reciprocal perpetual easement
     to effect those provisions shall be recorded with the office of the
     county recorder against each property involved at the time of
     development or redevelopment of the individual parcels.;

  f. Cross access between properties subject to this section shall be a
     paved access drive between the properties, of sufficient width and
     design to accommodate access and use by emergency vehicles as
     approved by the fire marshal, in addition to customary pedestrian and
     vehicular access; and

  g. Cross access drives as required by this section may not be gated.



2. Nonresidential developments may be approved without providing cross
   access when the planning commission finds that:

  a. The cross access would result in a slope greater than twelve percent
     (12%);

  b. Requirements of this title prevent the provision of cross access by
     creating a nonconformity in those requirements; or

  c. The uses for which the cross access would link are incompatible; and
          d. The site cannot be otherwise designed to accommodate the cross
             access and avoid the conditions of subsections E2a through E2c of this
             section.

      2. Deviation from the requirement to provide cross access:

          a. The planning commission may approve a deviation from the
             requirement to provide cross access if:

             (1) Requiring the cross access would:

                 (a) Result in the slope of the cross access drive exceeding twelve
                     percent (12%);

                 (b) Result in a violation or nonconformity with other requirements
                     of this title; or

                 (c) Create a hazard to health, safety, or welfare by linking two uses,
                     such as industrial and residential, that would be incompatible
                     with each other

             (2) The cross access cannot otherwise be designed to accommodate
                 cross access and avoid the circumstances of subsection 19-25-
                 080(E)(2)(a)(1).

…



9-27-120: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:

…

B. Additional Height Allowed: The provisions of this title shall not apply to restrict
the height of integral architectural features of a church or place of worship that are
not used for human occupancy, including but not limited to church spires, towers,
or belfries; clock towers, cupolas, or domes not used for human occupancy;
monuments; chimneys; water tanks; elevator bulkheads; or properly screened
mechanical appurtenances located on the roof of a building. Public and semipublic
utility buildings may be erected to a height not exceeding thirty five feet (35') if the
building is set back from each property line at least one foot (1') for each additional
foot of building height above the normal height limit required for the zone in which
the building is located.

…
17-5-035: CROSS ACCESS AND CONNECTIVITY:

All subdivisions of land zoned or intended for nonresidential or mixed use
development shall provide vehicular and pedestrian connectivity between lots
within the subdivision and other existing or intended nonresidential or mixed use
development abutting the property. This shall be accomplished through the
provision of public or private streets, cross access drives, or a combination thereof.
Where a cross access drive or private street is utilized, a perpetual easement for
pedestrian and vehicular access across the access drive or private street for the
benefit of the abutting property shall be included on both the preliminary and final
plat and recorded with the final plat. Where protection strips are utilized along a
private street the enactment of the required access easement shall be set to
coincide with the purchase of the protection strip by the abutting property owner,
said enactment provision being detailed both on the recorded plat and in the
recorded agreement.
