CHAPTER 9000 EXPENSES AND REIMBURSEMENT



                          Section 9010- Business Travel and Training Expenses



General Policy Statement

All overnight travel, whether in-state or out-of-state, is governed by this policy. When traveling for
work-related meetings, conferences, and training programs, the city will pay reasonable amounts for
expenses. Every effort should be made to make cost effective choices for lodging, transportation and
other expenses. All travel is subject to review and audit. When requesting funds for travel, the
employee agrees to only use the money as intended according to this policy.



1.0     Definitions

        1.1     “Travel” means any work-related, overnight trip for the city.
        1.2     “Employee” means all city personnel, city council and staff, committees and commission
                members, or others who travel using executive branch funds as approved by the
                Department Director and City Manager.
        1.3     “Per Diem” means the amount provided to an employee who is traveling to cover the
                costs of meals and incidental expenses without the necessity of supporting receipts.
        1.4     “Incidental Expenses” include fees and tips for porters, baggage handlers and other
                similar services. “Incidental Expenses” does not include ground transportation, fuel (if
                traveling in a city vehicle), airport parking, baggage fees, or rental cars.

2.0     Travel Authorization

        2.1     A Travel Authorization Form must be completed and approved prior to traveling. Travel
                Authorization Forms will be approved by the Department Director. It is the responsibility
                of each Department Director to ensure that all forms and documentation submitted by
                their employees are in proper order. Documentation must include a detailed conference
                registration and agenda, if applicable.

        2.2     Travel may be authorized when total transportation time, including adjustments for
                traffic, weather, or similar conditions, and any activities listed in the detailed itinerary or
                conference agenda, cannot be reasonably or safely accomplished between the hours of
                7 am and 7 pm.

        2.3     Costs incurred due to optional early arrivals or late departures that are outside of these
                parameters will not be considered an expense to the city, unless otherwise approved in
                written form to the Finance Department by a Department Director.
      2.4    When possible, employees should pay for travel-related expenses using a city credit
             card. If not possible, an itemized receipt of payment must be submitted for
             reimbursement. Meals and fuel costs covered by per diem or mileage reimbursement
             should not be charged to a city credit card.

      2.5    Employee may retain accrued frequent flyer and hotel club program credits; however,
             any cash rebates must be returned to the city. Employees should ensure that they
             continue to make the most economical travel arrangements, uninfluenced by potential
             airline or hotel travel awards

      2.6    Employee may travel with guests. However, the city will only reimburse employee
             expenses. Guest expenses should not be charged on city credit cards.

      2.7    Non-exempt employees will be compensated for travel time as required by the Fair
             Labor Standards Act (FLSA).

      2.8    Upon completion of approved travel, an Expense Reimbursement Form, along with
             itemized receipts, must be submitted to the Department Director for final review and
             authorization of any payment due.

      2.9    International travel may be allowed if deemed necessary. Prior to international travel,
             the employee should check with the IT Department to ensure their technology needs
             will be met, without incurring excessive usage charges. Any international fees such as
             entrance fees, proof of good health, or other obligatory fees will be reimbursed
             accordingly.



3.0   Event Registration

      3.1    Registration fees for conferences and seminars will be paid by the city. Additional
             conference activities must be approved by the Department Director.

      3.2    Fees for optional social events or non-business-related activities will not be paid by the
             city.



4.0   Transportation

      4.1    Employees are responsible for using the most efficient, direct and economical form of
             transportation available, given the circumstances. If an employee voluntarily chooses to
             use a more expensive form of travel, the city will compensate the employee only for the
             least expensive available travel option, with the employee being responsible for paying
             the difference in cost.
      4.2       An employee may use their assigned designated vehicle for travel with approval of their
                Department Director.

      4.3        If an employee uses their own personal vehicle travel, the city will reimburse the
                employee at the current mileage rate established by the IRS. (www.gsa.gov) Mileage is
                calculated beginning and ending at city hall.

                4.3.1   Use of a personal vehicle requires verification of liability, personal injury and
                        property damage insurance coverage when submitting the Travel Authorization
                        Form. If an accident occurs while using a personal vehicle, all costs related to
                        the accident, except those covered by workers compensation, will be paid solely
                        through the personal insurance.

                4.3.2   If an employee receives a car allowance, total reimbursable mileage will be 50
                        miles less than the total trip mileage. For non-overnight travel, see Section
                        9020.

                4.3.3   If more than one employee rides in the same vehicle, only the owner of the
                        vehicle will be reimbursed for mileage.

                4.3.4   Mileage to and from the airport is included as part of the travel and will be
                        compensated as such.

      4.4       A rental car may be used for travel when the cost of the rental car (including parking) is
                less expensive than other transportation modes.

                4.4.1   When renting a car for travel, a liability insurance supplement and loss damage
                        waiver should not be purchased.

      4.5       The city will generally pay the lowest price (including baggage fees), with fewest stops,
                and domestic coach class airfare when making reservations. Airline ticket purchases
                should be booked as far in advance as possible to get the best price. Reservations inside
                of 21-days require Department Director approval. Employee must pay for any
                additional seat upgrades or optional charges.

      4.6       The city will pay for any necessary ground transportation, including shuttles, taxis,
                rideshare, tips up to 20%, tolls and parking fees.

      4.7       Parking tickets, missed tolls, traffic or other criminal violations are the responsibility of
                the employee.

5.0   Lodging

      5.1       The city will pay either the hotel conference rate, or the GSA approved lodging rate as
                approved by the Department Director. Upgrades, room service and entertainment fees
                will not be paid by the city.

6.0   Per Diem

      6.1       The city will advance funds for per diem as stated by the GSA destination city per diem
                rate schedule. (www.gsa.gov)
      6.2     If meals are included in the conference registration and the agenda, the GSA approved
              amount per meal must be reduced accordingly. (www.gsa.gov)

      6.3     The first and last day of travel will be paid at 75% per diem.




7.0   Policy rules

      7.1     Violations of this policy or making false statements on any travel forms may result in
              disciplinary action, up to and including termination.

      7.2     Any exceptions from this policy must be approved by the City Manager.
