                              Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, UT 84020
                                     February 28, 2022

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: March 10, 2022

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, Todd.Draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     Boondocks Addition Site Plan Amendment Request
        Application No.: SPR-0148-2021
        Applicant:        Randy Fullmer representing Boondocks Food and Fun Draper,
                          LLC and BDU Property, LLC
        Project Location: 75 E. Southfork Dr.
        Current Zoning: CR (Regional Commercial) Zone
        Acreage:          8.5 Acres (Approximately 370,260 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Site Plan Amendment in the CR zone
                          regarding expansion of the existing building in order to add a
                          bowling alley, outdoor climbing structure, and to make related
                          adjustments to the parking layout and landscaping on the site.




BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan Amendment for approximately 8.5
acres located east of Minuteman Drive and North of Southfork Drive, at approximately 75
E. Southfork Drive (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned CR. The applicant is
requesting that a Site Plan Amendment, together with deviation requests from building
design standards, be approved allowing for the expansion of the existing building in order
to add a bowling alley, outdoor climbing structure, and to make related adjustments to the
parking layout and landscaping on the site.

The Draper location of Boondocks Food and Fun was built and began operating in 2004.
The original approval for the site consisted of a combined Conditional Use Permit and Site



Boondocks Addition                                                 App. # SPR-0148-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                  1
Plan approval, found in file# JS-2004-0028. In 2008 the Planning Commission approved an
amendment to the conditions of approval issued in 2004 under file# JS-2008-000149 to
extend the hours of operation.



ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Regional
Commercial land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the CR zoning classification (Exhibit D). According to
Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the CR zone is to
“provide areas where a combination of destination oriented business, retail commercial,
entertainment, and related uses may be established, maintained and protected to serve both
residents and nonresidents of the city. Typical uses in this zone include large scale, master
planned commercial centers with outlying commercial pads, big box stores, and offices.” The
property is surrounded by various zoning districts. The CG (General Commercial) zone
abuts the subject property on the north, the CR zone and R3 (Single-Family Residential,
13,000 ft2 minimum lot size) zone to the east, the CO2 (Professional Office) zone to the
South, the RM2 (Multiple-Family Residential) zone to the south across Southfork Drive, and
the M1 (Light Manufacturing) zone on the opposite side of the I-15 Freeway to the west.

Site Plan Layout. The proposed amendments to the site plan (Exhibit E) include the removal
of the existing batting cages located north of the existing building and an extension of that
building to the north for the purpose of adding a bowling alley. Some reconfiguration of
the site is also proposed, mainly consisting of a change to the location of the trash



Boondocks Addition                                                  App. # SPR-0148-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                   2
dumpster and reconfiguration of the northernmost parking stalls to accommodate
additional landscaping in replacement of that being removed. The location of the existing
access drive between this property and the property to the east will not change.
Compliance with ordinance requirements for fire and emergency vehicle access roads will
be maintained. Some minor restriping of existing parking areas will also occur as needed to
maintain and restore compliance with the minimum parking stall sizes listed in Chapter 9-
25 of the DCMC. Within the outdoor recreation area a new Sky Trail, play and climbing
structure is proposed to be added (Exhibit I). The top platform height of the structure will
be twenty-four feet (24‘) above grade with the top of the steel poles that support the
structure and the shade cover extending to thirty-six feet (36’) in height. The new play and
climbing structure will replace the existing arch that will be removed.

Circulation. The required twenty-six feet wide (26’) emergency vehicle access roads will
continue to be located roughly in their current location from the connection to the street at
Southfork Drive, across the front of the building, and extending through the northern drive
aisle and connecting to the neighboring property to the east (Exhibit E). Minor changes to
the restriping of the existing parking will ensure that this minimum width is maintained
directly in front of the building and that the minimum stall sizes are also maintained. The
remaining access drives on the property will be between twenty-four feet six inches (24’ 6”)
and twenty-five feet (25’) in width and comply with the minimum twenty-four feet (24’)
required of drive aisles that provide access to the on-site parking.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. The proposed changes to the on-site landscaping as
indicated in the accompanying landscape plans (Exhibit H), include new parking lot planter
islands, and additional abutting landscaping between the parking area on the north and
the property line. Proposed landscaping complies with the design requirements for parking
area landscaping and perimeter landscaping. Existing landscaped area that is being
removed as a result of the proposed building expansion and change to the parking layout
is being replaced on site and the proposed Site Plan Amendment remains consistent with
the percentages as contained within the initial approvals for the site. The existing
landscaping percentage in the parking area of 4% is non-conforming, and the proposed
plans provide for an increase in the parking area landscaping bringing the calculated
percentage up to 5%.

Parking. According to the Architectural Site Plan the number of parking spaces on the
property is proposed to be reduced from 264 to 253 (Exhibit E). This, combined with the
building expansion represents a reduction in the parking stall ratio from 8.3 stalls per 1,000
ft² to 5.5 stalls per 1,000 ft². The existing parking stall count still exceeds the parking stall
calculation standards in ordinance of 3 stalls per 1,000 ft² for recreation and
entertainment, and 4 stalls per 1,000 ft² for reception centers. The eleven (11) stall
reduction in overall parking stalls brings the property closer to compliance to current
parking standards and will not create a significant impact to the business operation.




Boondocks Addition                                                     App. # SPR-0148-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                     3
Architecture. The proposed floor plans (Exhibit F) show the proposed addition of a bowling
alley to the site. The proposed size of the main addition to the existing building is 13,808
ft². A smaller addition of 152 ft² is also proposed for the front entry to create a new
vestibule. The proposed elevation drawings (Exhibit G) show the existing building,
constructed of tilt-up concrete, with the new proposed addition also being built of tilt-up
concrete. Tilt-up concrete is not an allowable primary material in the CR zone. Tilt-up
concrete is allowed as a primary material in the M1, M2 and CBP zones only. The architect
has included the tilt-up concrete in their calculations of secondary materials. While roofline
and parapet variation does occur along the front or eastern elevation in compliance with
ordinance, it does not currently exist on any other façade.

The architect provided calculations (Exhibit G) regarding the percentages of primary and
secondary materials on each façade of the new addition are not entirely accurate. This is
likely because it does not appear that the architect included the EIFS cornices and possibly
some of the metal coping in the calculations. Staff has approximated the following for the
proposed addition inclusive of those elements and based on the submitted floor plans and
elevation drawings:

                              Materials Calculations – Building Additions

 North Façade                        24.8% primary materials       75.2% secondary materials

 East Façade                         71.9 % primary materials      28.1% secondary materials

 West Façade                         47.7 % primary materials      52.3% secondary materials

 South Façade                        100% primary materials        0% secondary materials



The small difference in the staff calculated percentages versus the percentages supplied by
the architect does not change the fact that the proposal does not comply with the
ordinance requirement that 75% of each façade be comprised of primary materials. The
proposed façade design for the addition does include the use of at least three primary
materials: stone, cement board siding and metal composite panels; and at least three
secondary materials of EIFS, metal, and tilt-up concrete painted with a specialty textured
paint finish. The applicant has requested a deviation from the architectural design
standards to allow for the building addition to be constructed primarily of tilt up concrete
with the primary and secondary material finishes as proposed in the elevation drawings
(Exhibit G), and to deviate from the required facade articulation and the requirement for
roofline and parapet variations. Colored renderings were provided by the applicant as part
of their submittal and are provided as a part of Exhibit G for reference, but were not
reviewed as part of ordinance requirements and are not under consideration for approval
as a part of the elevation drawings or materials requirements.



Boondocks Addition                                                          App. # SPR-0148-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                         4
Architectural Design Standards Modification. Chapter 22 of the DCMC allows the Planning
Commission to authorize deviations to strict compliance with the terms of DCMC regarding
development design standards. DCMC Section 9-22-030 states that the Planning
Commission may approve architectural plans associated with development applications
that deviate from the requirements of the DCMC based on making certain required
findings in whole. Per DCMC Section 9-22-030(B), the Planning Commission shall find that
the application meets at least three of the following conditions:

    1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of
        what is required in the development code and site plan review.
    2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space
        area exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
    3. The project is a transit oriented development (TOD) and provides connectivity to a
        transportation facility.
    4. Traffic impacts on the neighborhood are lessened through programs, such as
        creative design, traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit pass
        programs.
    5. The project is an accredited LEED development.
    6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
        master plan or ordinance.
    7. The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases which
        involve redeveloped buildings, additions to existing buildings, minor structures
        added to a site, or new buildings within a previously approved phased project.
    8. Additional landscape plant material is provided in an amount at least ten percent
        (10%) more than the minimum required, including additional planting beds, plants,
        trees or a combination thereof.
    9. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or
        modern, which utilizes facade materials differently then prescribed in subsection 9-
        22-040(F) of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.
    10. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
        greater than the minimum required amount.

Staff concurs with the architect’s assertion (Exhibit K) that the minimum of 3 criteria from
DCMC Subsection 9-22-030(B) necessary for consideration of deviation requests have been
met with respects to criteria 6, 7 and 9. The proposed variations are consistent with the
purposes of the design standards chapter of higher quality design, and in bringing the
existing building closer into compliance with existing ordinances. The expansion creates a
consistent and compatible design between the new addition and the existing building.
Furthermore the existing and proposed building design primarily utilize painted tilt-up
concrete which is a façade material being used differently than prescribed in DCMC
Subsection 9-22-040(F) and the building design was done by a licensed architect.




Boondocks Addition                                                 App. # SPR-0148-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                   5
In the deviation request letter the architect argues in their response to criterion 10 that
architectural precast concrete and tilt-up concrete are the same thing and that therefore
the amount of primary materials used for the façades exceeds the minimum amount
required by at least 10%. The ordinance however does not use them interchangeably and
treats them as two distinctly separate exterior finish materials, specifically designating tilt-
up concrete as a primary material in the M1, M2 and CBP zones only. Architectural precast
concrete is a distinctly separate term from tilt-up concrete as used in DCMC Section 9-22-
040. In common industry usage the term architectural precast concrete predominantly
refers to concrete finishes that are precast using a reusable mold and contribute to the
aesthetic and architectural value of the building. Tilt-up concrete is used to describe a
series of concrete panels cast on-site using wood forms and then lifted or tilted up in place
to form a building’s exterior walls. The architect is not incorrect in stating that tilt-up
concrete is a type of precast concrete or that the proposed panels will have scoring and
other architectural details, but such details are commonly included in tilt-up concrete. Staff
does not concur with the argument that criterion 10 from the list in DCMC Section 9-22-030
has been met, and the use of the criterion as a basis for approval of deviations from
building design standards should be viewed as impermissible.

Lighting. The proposed lighting plan and photometric analyses (Exhibit J) includes new
exterior accent lighting on the building. Proposed lighting has been reviewed by staff and
found to be compliant with current ordinances. Compliance with the additional conditions
pertaining to turning off lighting after hours as listed in the Conditional Use Permit (and as
amended) shall still be required.

Fencing. There are not proposed changes to the existing perimeter fencing on the site
(Exhibit E). A new gate and related fencing, replacing the existing gate and fencing across
the northern access drive that separates the parking area from the entertainment,
recreation, and maintenance areas is proposed. The new gate will be required to meet the
access requirements of the Fire Marshal at the time of installation.

Previous Conditions of Approval. The Planning Commission placed the following conditions
of approval on the Conditional Use Permit and Site Plan on May 7, 2004, and as modified
on May 20, 2004:

        1. That all conditions of the Fire Department are continually met and adhered to,
           including but not limited to:
           a. That additional fire hydrants be added as indicated on the redlined site utility
               plan.
           b. That the site and building are required to meet all fire, building, mechanical,
               and electric codes.
           c. That a Fire Department lock box be installed on the front of the building with
               keys to the northern gate as well as the buildings themselves.
           d. That the above ground fuel storage tank located to the north of the go-cart



Boondocks Addition                                                    App. # SPR-0148-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                    6
                tracks meet all applicable codes and regulations governing the use of such
                tanks.
        2. That all conditions of the Engineering Department are continually met and
            adhered to, including but not limited to:
            a. Developer must submit Plan and Profile sheets for any street improvements
                on public ROW.
            b. Developer must submit a Horizontal Control Plan according to Draper City
                Design Standards.
            c. Developer must show and oil/gas separator per NPESC guidelines.
            d. Developer must submit and Erosion Control plan per Draper City Land
                Disturbance Design and Construction Standards, latest edition.
            e. Developer must submit a Traffic Control Plan for any construction work along
                Minuteman or South Fork Drive. Traffic Control Plan must be drawn
                according to M.U.T.C.D. standards and must be submitted for review and
                approval before scheduling a pre-construction meeting.
            f. Developer is responsible for undergrounding of existing overhead power
                lines or payment in fee in lieu of undergrounding according to Draper City
                Municipal Code and Consolidated Fee Schedule.
            g. Developer must submit a Striping and Signing plan for Minuteman Drive
                according to M.U.T.C.D. standards, latest edition.
            h. All redlined comments from Engineering Department review dated March 26,
                2004.
        3. That all trees and shrubs be of the caliper and height as shown on the submitted
            landscaping plan when installed on site (3” caliper for deciduous trees, 8’ in
            height for evergreens around parking lot perimeter).
        4. That all site lighting be installed as submitted on the April 16, 2004 lighting plan.
            No lights shall exceed 20’ in height. All lights must have fully recessed fixtures
            with fixtures mounted perpendicular to the ground.
        5. That all lights other than those needed for security purposes be turned off
            within 1 hour after closing time.
        6. That the hours of operation be limited to Sunday-Thursday 10:00 am – 10:00 pm
            and Friday-Saturday 10:00 am – 12:00 am.
        7. That all site improvements be constructed and installed prior to receiving a
            certificate of occupancy.
        8. That all 4 parcels of ground be combined into one through Salt Lake County.
        9. That all applicable permits are received prior to the start of any site for building
            work including all applicable permits for work within the East Jordan Canal.
        10. That the additional height allowed for the climbing structure be limited to no
            more than 20 10 feet above that allowed within the CR zone (65 55 feet overall
            height). (Modified by Planning Commission reconsideration on May 20, 2004)
        11. That the speaker systems shall be kept to a low level so as not to project sound
            towards the residential areas adjacent to the site.
        12. That no signage is approved with the approval of this site plan. All signage



Boondocks Addition                                                    App. # SPR-0148-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                    7
            requires separate permits and is required to comply with Chapter 9-26 of the
            Draper City Municipal Code.
        13. That all parking is to be contained on site. Not on street parking shall be allowed
            on Minuteman Drive or South Fork Drive.
        14. That the applicant and/or property owner enter into a Maintenance and
            Reclamation Agreement for the City addressing maintenance of the site should
            the property become vacant. Such Maintenance and Reclamation Agreement
            shall contain and/or address, at a minimum, the following:
            a. Maintenance of all landscaping and vegetation on the site;
            b. Storage and/or removal of all debris and stored materials;
            c. Maintenance of all buildings, including deteriorated paint or graffiti;
            d. Maintenance of security, lighting and fencing;
            e. Removal and/or reclamation of the race track area and miniature golf course;
            f. Corrective action notice;
            g. Corrective action rights and lien provisions.

        Any violation or failure of the property owner to comply with the Maintenance and
        Reclamation Agreement shall be subject to enforcement by the City.

The Planning Commission modified the following conditions of approval related to the
Conditional Use Permit on June 19, 2008:

        1. That the revised hours of operation are:
           Off Season:
               Sunday through Thursday 10:00 am – 10:00 pm
               Friday and Saturday 10:00 am – 12:00 am
           Peak Season (Memorial Day through Labor Day):
               Sunday through Thursday 10:00 am – 11:00 pm
               Friday and Saturday 10:00 am – 12:00 am
        2. That the batting cages are closed by 10:00 pm Sunday-Thursday
        3. That up to four special events may be held each year. During these events the
           hours of operation may be from 10:00 am to 3:00 am the following day.
        4. That all other conditions of the original Conditional Use Permit are met:
           a. That all lights other than those needed for security purposes be turned off
               within 1 hour after closing time.
           b. That the speaker systems shall be kept to a low level so as not to project
               sound towards the residential areas adjacent to the site.
           c. That all parking is to be contained on site. No on street parking shall be
               allowed on Minuteman Drive or South Fork Drive.

    As part of the approval of the Conditional Use Permit request, the Planning Commission
    also recommended that a notice is mailed out to all homeowners within 400 feet of the
    Property prior to any special event.



Boondocks Addition                                                   App. # SPR-0148-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                    8
Criteria For Approval.

Site Plan 9-5-090
The criteria for review and potential approval of a Site Plan Amendment request is found in
Sections 9-5-090(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site
            plan:
            1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
               approved.
            2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but
               not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
               building materials.
            3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
               general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
            4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
               development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
            5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in
               Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage,
               and utilities concerns.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Site Plan Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Site Plan Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Site Plan Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Site Plan
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Site Plan
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State



Boondocks Addition                                                         App. # SPR-0148-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                        9
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
            Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
            and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
         2. That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
            development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
         3. That the building and site be constructed in substantial compliance with the
            plans submitted and approved as part of this site plan amendment review, and
            in accordance with any approved deviations from standards.
         4. That no signage is approved with the site plan amendment. All signage is
            required to meet the requirements of Chapter 9-26 and obtain applicable sign
            permits through the appropriate City process.
         5. That the SWPPP permit and requested information and drawings be submitted
            to the satisfaction of Draper City Engineering and Public Works as part of the
            required land disturbance permit.
         6. Continued adherence to all conditions of the current Conditional Use Permit.

Deviation Request from DCMC Subsections 9-22-040(C) –Façade Articulation
The findings for approval of a deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(C) to allow for a
building that does not comply with the requirements for a minimum horizontal façade
variation of five feet (5’) by twenty feet (20’) and which has segments of uninterrupted
façade greater than one-hundred feet (100’) in length along its face are as follows:

         1. The variations are consistent with the purpose of DCMC Chapter 9-22 and any
            applicable master plan or ordinance.
         2. The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design involving an
            addition to an existing building.
         3. The building design is a specific architectural style which utilizes facade materials
            differently than prescribed in DCMC subsection 9-22-040(F) and is designed by a
            licensed architect.

The findings for denial of a deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(C) to allow for a
building that does not comply with the requirements for a minimum horizontal façade



Boondocks Addition                                                     App. # SPR-0148-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                     10
variation of five feet (5’) by twenty feet (20’) and which has segments of uninterrupted
façade greater than one-hundred feet (100’) in length along its face are as follows:

        1. The variations are not consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any
           applicable master plan or ordinance.
        2. The project is not required to create a consistent and compatible design
           involving the addition to the existing building.
        3. The building design is not a specific architectural style which utilizes facade
           materials differently than prescribed in DCMC subsection 9-22-040(F).

Deviation Request from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(D)(2) – Roofline and Parapet
Variations
The findings for approval of the deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(D)(2) to allow
for a building that does not strictly comply with the requirements for roofline and parapet
variations and including undisturbed rooflines fifty feet (50’) or greater are as follows:

        1. The variations are consistent with the purpose of DCMC Chapter 9-22 and any
           applicable master plan or ordinance.
        2. The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design involving an
           addition to an existing building.
        3. The building design is a specific architectural style which utilizes facade materials
           differently than prescribed in DCMC subsection 9-22-040(F) and is designed by a
           licensed architect.

The findings for denial of the deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(D)(2) for a building
that does not strictly comply with the requirements for roofline and parapet variations and
including undisturbed rooflines fifty feet (50’) or greater are as follows:

        1. The variations are not consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any
           applicable master plan or ordinance.
        2. The project is not required to create a consistent and compatible design
           involving the addition to the existing building.
        3. The building design is not a specific architectural style which utilizes facade
           materials differently than prescribed in DCMC subsection 9-22-040(F).

Deviation Request from DCMC Section 9-22-040(F) – Materials
The findings for approval of the deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(F) to allow for a
building that does not comply with the exterior materials requirement of ordinance,
particularly the use of 75% primary materials on the exterior are as follows:

        1. The variations are consistent with the purpose of DCMC Chapter 9-22 and any
           applicable master plan or ordinance.
        2. The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design involving an



Boondocks Addition                                                    App. # SPR-0148-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                    11
           addition to an existing building.
        3. The building design is a specific architectural style which utilizes facade materials
           differently than prescribed in DCMC subsection 9-22-040(F) and is designed by a
           licensed architect.

The findings for denial of the deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(F) for a building
that does not comply with the exterior materials requirement of ordinance, particularly the
use of 75% primary materials on the exterior are as follows:

        1. The variations are not consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any
           applicable master plan or ordinance.
        2. The project is not required to create a consistent and compatible design
           involving the addition to the existing building.
        3. The building design is not a specific architectural style which utilizes facade
           materials differently than prescribed in DCMC subsection 9-22-040(F).

Site Plan
The findings for approval of the site plan amendment are as follows:

        1. The entire existing site is developed and the amendment represents
           redevelopment of a portion of the site.
        2. The site plan amendment will conform to applicable standards, including but not
           limited to building height, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
           building materials.
        3. The proposed site plan meets requirements and provisions of Draper City
           Municipal Code, including Section 9-5-090(E).
        4. The site can accommodate any change in the number of people on the site and
           any change in impact on surrounding infrastructure.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1. The proposed site plan does not meet the requirements and provisions of
           Draper City Municipal Code, including Section 9-5-090(E).
        2. The site cannot accommodate any change in the number of people on the site or
           any change in impact on surrounding infrastructure.



MODEL MOTIONS
Deviation Request from DCMC Subsections 9-22-040(C) – Façade Articulation
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Deviation request from the
minimum horizontal façade articulation, as requested by Randy Fullmer, representing
Boondocks Food and Fun Draper, LLC and BDU Property, LLC for the Boondocks Addition
Site Plan Amendment, application SPR-0148-2021, based on the findings and subject to the



Boondocks Addition                                                    App. # SPR-0148-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                    12
conditions listed in the Staff Report date February 28, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the Deviation request from
the minimum horizontal façade articulation, as requested by Randy Fullmer, representing
Boondocks Food and Fun Draper, LLC and BDU Property, LLC for the Boondocks Addition
Site Plan Amendment, application SPR-0148-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report date February 28, 2022 and as modified by the findings
and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Deviation request from the minimum
horizontal façade articulation, as requested by Randy Fullmer, representing Boondocks
Food and Fun Draper, LLC and BDU Property, LLC for the Boondocks Addition Site Plan
Amendment, application SPR-0148-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report date February 28, 2022.

Deviation Request from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(D)(2) – Roofline and Parapet
Variations
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Deviation request from roofline
and parapet variations, as requested by Randy Fullmer, representing Boondocks Food and
Fun Draper, LLC and BDU Property, LLC for the Boondocks Addition Site Plan Amendment,
application SPR-0148-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report date February 28, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the Deviation request from
roofline and parapet variations, as requested by Randy Fullmer, representing Boondocks
Food and Fun Draper, LLC and BDU Property, LLC for the Boondocks Addition Site Plan
Amendment, application SPR-0148-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report date February 28, 2022 and as modified by the findings
and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Deviation request from roofline and
parapet variations, as requested by Randy Fullmer, representing Boondocks Food and Fun
Draper, LLC and BDU Property, LLC for the Boondocks Addition Site Plan Amendment,
application SPR-0148-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report date February 28, 2022.

Deviation Request from DCMC Section 9-22-040(F) – Materials
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Deviation request from
Materials requirements, as requested by Randy Fullmer, representing Boondocks Food and



Boondocks Addition                                                 App. # SPR-0148-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                   13
Fun Draper, LLC and BDU Property, LLC for the Boondocks Addition Site Plan Amendment,
application SPR-0148-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report date February 28, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the Deviation request from
Materials requirements, as requested by Randy Fullmer, representing Boondocks Food and
Fun Draper, LLC and BDU Property, LLC for the Boondocks Addition Site Plan Amendment,
application SPR-0148-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report date February 28, 2022 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Deviation request from Materials
requirements, as requested by Randy Fullmer, representing Boondocks Food and Fun
Draper, LLC and BDU Property, LLC for the Boondocks Addition Site Plan Amendment,
application SPR-0148-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report date February 28, 2022.

Site Plan
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Site Plan Amendment, as
requested by Randy Fullmer, representing Boondocks Food and Fun Draper, LLC and BDU
Property, LLC for the Boondocks Addition Site Plan Amendment, application SPR-0148-
2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report date
February 28, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the Site Plan Amendment,
as requested by Randy Fullmer, representing Boondocks Food and Fun Draper, LLC and
BDU Property, LLC for the Boondocks Addition Site Plan Amendment, application SPR-
0148-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
date February 28, 2022 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Site Plan Amendment, as requested by
Randy Fullmer, representing Boondocks Food and Fun Draper, LLC and BDU Property, LLC
for the Boondocks Addition Site Plan Amendment, application SPR-0148-2021, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report date February 28, 2022.




Boondocks Addition                                                  App. # SPR-0148-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                   14
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.


       1. No additional Comments.


Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.


       1. We have reviewed the Site Plan application for the subject project for compliance to
          the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC). Accordingly, we have included the following
          comments for your consideration:
       X   MEETS REQUIREMENTS
       General
           1. Submit the original, hard-copy of the Stormwater Maintenance Plan and
              Agreement to Engineering. This will be a requirement before issuing the LDP.


           2. Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
              construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division
              and is required prior to Building Permit issuance. (Informational comment. No
              action required at this time.)


       2. I have reviewed the submitted SWMP for the subject project. Accordingly, I have
          included the following comments for your consideration:
       X RECOMMEND DENIAL BASED ON INCOMPLETE INFORMATION
       General Comments:
           1. Original, signed, notarized, and single sided agreement needs to be submitted to
              Draper City Engineering department.
           2. Appendix A: Site drawing with all storm water facilities needs to be included under
              Appendix A.
Building Division Review.


       1. No additional comments.


Fire Division Review.


       1. Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
          twenty-six (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen
          (13) feet six (6) inches shall be required. The road must be designed and
          maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The surface
          shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall have an
          inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a maximum grade
          of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits being issued.
       2. Fire Hydrants are required. Three hydrants are required for this project. They
          shall be protected with bollards if susceptible to vehicle damage.
       3. Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire
          Department Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire
          Department prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time during
          the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department Access
          becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.
       4. No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and
          testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any
          combustible elements being received or delivered on building site.
       5. Fire Sprinkler Modifications Required. If the existing building already has a fire
          sprinkler system and during the remodel more than twenty (20) sprinkler heads
          are relocated. A Deferred submittal for fire sprinkler shop drawings are to be
          sent via email to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us . A complete set of
          plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be
          stamped by a NICET level III or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to
          be a hydrant with-in a 100 feet of the FDC.) FDC is required to have KNOX
          Locking Caps. ALL FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR
          TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
       6. Fire Alarm Modifications Required. If the existing building already has a fire
          alarm system and during remodel more than five (5) devices are to be relocated.
          A Deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to be sent via email to the
          following to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us . A complete set of plans,
          with manufacturer cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped
          by a NICET level III or better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE ALARM PLANS
           REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE
           DEPARTMENT.
       7. Emergency Voice/Alarm Communication System (IBC 403.4.4) Required: An
          emergency voice/alarm communication system (EVACS) will be designed and
          installed in accordance with NFPA 72 and will be provided throughout the
          facility. The operation of any automatic fire detector, sprinkler water flow device,
          or manual fire alarm box will automatically sound an alert tone followed by voice
          instructions giving approved information and directions for a general or staged
          evacuation. Speakers will be provided throughout the building by paging zones.
          The paging zones will be provided for each floor and the interior exit stairways.
          The EVCS will permit the First Responders to provide live voice commands to
          occupants to assist with evacuation and notifications during firefighting
          operations.
       8. Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted to
          exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the
          exterior access to the fire sprinkler riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the top of
          the box) Lock box purchase can be arranged by the General Contractor. See
          attached information form.
       9. 2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable
          type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a
          conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and immediately
          available for use. Placed every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or not the
          extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not more than
          five (5) feet above the floor.
       10. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
           address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
           property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.


GIS Division Review.


       1. No additional Comments.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
If this sheet is not 30"
by 42" it is a reduced                                                                        K&A Architecture Inc. All rights reserved. No part of
print, scale accordingly                                                                  this document may be reproduced or utilized in any form
                                                                                          without prior written authorization of K&A Architecture Inc.




                                                                                                                     architecture

                                                                                           Kiley & Associates Architecture, Inc.




                                                                                                                        OF U
                                                                                                                  TE            TA
                                                                                                                TA




                                                                                                           S




                                                                                                                                  H
                                                                                                                                       CT
                                                                                                         L IC




                                                                                                                                  TE
                                                                                                                NS




                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                     E D AR C H

                                                                                              Donald P. Kiley, License #12432021-0331
                                                                                                      Expiration Date 05/31/24

                                                                                             Architect Licensed in the following states:
                                                                                                OH, FL, TN, IL, IN, KY, MI, MN,
                                                                                            AZ, NJ, WV, VA, PA, MD, DE, ID, SC, UT




                                                 Not Used



                                                                                          NO.                   DESCRIPTION                       DATE
                                                                                                             REVISIONS

                                                                                            * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                                            NO SUBCONTRACTOR SHOULD BE PROVIDED WITH A
                                                                                              PARTIAL SET OF PLANS FOR EITHER BIDDING OR
                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES WITHOUT FIRST TAKING
                                                                                          AMPLE TIME TO REVIEW A COMPLETE SET IN ORDER TO
                                                                                           DETERMINE FOR THEMSELVES THE INFORMATION AND
                                                                                          DOCUMENTATION THEY WISH TO HAVE COPIED. THERE
                                                                                                ARE MANY CROSS-REFERENCES IN A SET OF
                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. ANY DISCREPANCIES
                                                                                         SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE DESIGN
                                                                                               PROFESSIONAL FOR FORMAL CLARIFICATION.
                                                                                         SUBCONTRACTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR BIDDING AND
                                                                                          CONSTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE COMPLETE
                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS, NOT SPECIFIC SHEETS.
                                                                                          ONLY HAVING A PARTIAL SET OF DRAWINGS SHALL NOT
                                                                                               BE ACCEPTED AS AN EXCUSE FOR DELAYS OR
                                                                                                          INCOMPLETE WORK.
   E16               Architectural Site Plan
Scale: 1"=30'-0"
                                                                                         PROJECT NAME:




                                                 D4                 Dumpster Enclosure
                                               Scale: 3/16"=1'-0"




                                                                                         SHEET TITLE:




                                                                                         ISSUE:                  DRAWING NO.

   A16               Existing Plan               A4                 Site Calculations    SCALE:

Scale: 1"=80'-0"                               No Scale                                  DATE:
 EXHIBIT F
FLOOR PLAN
If this sheet is not 30"
by 42" it is a reduced                   K&A Architecture Inc. All rights reserved. No part of
print, scale accordingly             this document may be reproduced or utilized in any form
                                     without prior written authorization of K&A Architecture Inc.




                                                                            architecture

                                        Kiley & Associates Architecture, Inc.




                                                                                    OF U
                                                                        TE                       TA
                                                                      TA




                                                                 S




                                                                                                     H
                                                                                                          CT
                                                             L IC




                                                                                                    TE
                                                                     NS




                                                                  E
                                                                                                      I
                                                                            E D AR C H

                                            Donald P. Kiley, License #12432021-0331
                                                    Expiration Date 05/31/24

                                           Architect Licensed in the following states:
                                              OH, FL, TN, IL, IN, KY, MI, MN,
                                          AZ, NJ, WV, VA, PA, MD, DE, ID, SC, UT
                                                                               * * * WARNING * * *
                                    The first Two (2) pages of this set of documents should contain a "red" seal with blue signature / date
                                     over the seal. The seal should be embossed in order to distinguish the documents as the "official"
                                     permit documents intended for permitting and construction. If the documents do not contain these
                                         appropriate markings no permits should be issued nor should inspections be granted. K&A
                                                    Architecture should be notified immediately of any such deficiencies.




                                     NO.                             DESCRIPTION                                             DATE
                                                                   REVISIONS

                                          * * * WARNING * * *
                                       NO SUBCONTRACTOR SHOULD BE PROVIDED WITH A
                                         PARTIAL SET OF PLANS FOR EITHER BIDDING OR
                                       CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES WITHOUT FIRST TAKING
                                     AMPLE TIME TO REVIEW A COMPLETE SET IN ORDER TO
                                      DETERMINE FOR THEMSELVES THE INFORMATION AND
                                     DOCUMENTATION THEY WISH TO HAVE COPIED. THERE
                                           ARE MANY CROSS-REFERENCES IN A SET OF
                                       CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. ANY DISCREPANCIES
                                    SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE DESIGN
                                          PROFESSIONAL FOR FORMAL CLARIFICATION.
                                    SUBCONTRACTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR BIDDING AND
                                     CONSTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE COMPLETE
                                       CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS, NOT SPECIFIC SHEETS.
                                     ONLY HAVING A PARTIAL SET OF DRAWINGS SHALL NOT
                                          BE ACCEPTED AS AN EXCUSE FOR DELAYS OR
                                                     INCOMPLETE WORK.




                                    PROJECT NAME:




                                    SHEET TITLE:




                                    ISSUE:                              DRAWING NO.

   A16               Overall Plan   SCALE:

Scale: 3/32"=1'-0"                  DATE:
 EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS
If this sheet is not 30"
by 42" it is a reduced                                                                                                               K&A Architecture Inc. All rights reserved. No part of
print, scale accordingly                                                                                                         this document may be reproduced or utilized in any form
                                                                                                                                 without prior written authorization of K&A Architecture Inc.




                                                                                                                                                            architecture

                                                                                                                                  Kiley & Associates Architecture, Inc.




                                                                                                                                                               OF U
                                                                                                                                                         TE            TA
                                                                                                                                                       TA




                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                         H
                                                                                                                                                                              CT
                                                                                                                                                L IC




                                                                                                                                                                         TE
                                                                                                                                                       NS




                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                            E D AR C H

                                                                                                                                     Donald P. Kiley, License #12432021-0331
                                                                                                                                             Expiration Date 05/31/24

                                                                                                                                    Architect Licensed in the following states:
                                                                                                                                       OH, FL, TN, IL, IN, KY, MI, MN,
                                                                                                                                   AZ, NJ, WV, VA, PA, MD, DE, ID, SC, UT




   I16               South Exterior Elevation                           I8                 North Exterior Elevation
Scale: 3/32"=1'-0"                                                    Scale: 3/32"=1'-0"




                                                                                                                                 NO.                   DESCRIPTION                       DATE
                                                                                                                                                    REVISIONS

                                                                                                                                   * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                                                                                   NO SUBCONTRACTOR SHOULD BE PROVIDED WITH A
                                                                                                                                     PARTIAL SET OF PLANS FOR EITHER BIDDING OR
                                                                                                                                   CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES WITHOUT FIRST TAKING
                                                                                                                                 AMPLE TIME TO REVIEW A COMPLETE SET IN ORDER TO
                                                                                                                                  DETERMINE FOR THEMSELVES THE INFORMATION AND
                                                                                                                                 DOCUMENTATION THEY WISH TO HAVE COPIED. THERE
                                                                                                                                       ARE MANY CROSS-REFERENCES IN A SET OF
                                                                                                                                   CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. ANY DISCREPANCIES
                                                                                                                                SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE DESIGN
                                                                                                                                      PROFESSIONAL FOR FORMAL CLARIFICATION.
                                                                                                                                SUBCONTRACTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR BIDDING AND
                                                                                                                                 CONSTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE COMPLETE
                                                                                                                                   CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS, NOT SPECIFIC SHEETS.
                                                                                                                                 ONLY HAVING A PARTIAL SET OF DRAWINGS SHALL NOT
                                                                                                                                      BE ACCEPTED AS AN EXCUSE FOR DELAYS OR
                                                                                                                                                 INCOMPLETE WORK.




   E16               West Exterior Elevation                                                                                    PROJECT NAME:
Scale: 3/32"=1'-0"




                                                BD BAR   RESTAURANT              ARCADE                               BOWLING




                                                                                                                                SHEET TITLE:




                                                                                                                                ISSUE:                  DRAWING NO.

   A16               East Exterior Elevation                                                                                    SCALE:

Scale: 3/32"=1'-0"                                                                                                              DATE:
If this sheet is not 30"
by 42" it is a reduced          K&A Architecture Inc. All rights reserved. No part of
print, scale accordingly    this document may be reproduced or utilized in any form
                            without prior written authorization of K&A Architecture Inc.




                                                       architecture

                             Kiley & Associates Architecture, Inc.




                                                          OF U
                                                    TE            TA
                                                  TA




                                             S




                                                                    H
                                                                         CT
                                           L IC




                                                                    TE
                                                  NS




                                              E
                                                                     I
                                                       E D AR C H

                                Donald P. Kiley, License #12432021-0331
                                        Expiration Date 05/31/24

                               Architect Licensed in the following states:
                                  OH, FL, TN, IL, IN, KY, MI, MN,
                              AZ, NJ, WV, VA, PA, MD, DE, ID, SC, UT




                            NO.                   DESCRIPTION                       DATE
                                               REVISIONS

                              * * * WARNING * * *
                              NO SUBCONTRACTOR SHOULD BE PROVIDED WITH A
                                PARTIAL SET OF PLANS FOR EITHER BIDDING OR
                              CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES WITHOUT FIRST TAKING
                            AMPLE TIME TO REVIEW A COMPLETE SET IN ORDER TO
                             DETERMINE FOR THEMSELVES THE INFORMATION AND
                            DOCUMENTATION THEY WISH TO HAVE COPIED. THERE
                                  ARE MANY CROSS-REFERENCES IN A SET OF
                              CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. ANY DISCREPANCIES
                           SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE DESIGN
                                 PROFESSIONAL FOR FORMAL CLARIFICATION.
                           SUBCONTRACTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR BIDDING AND
                            CONSTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE COMPLETE
                              CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS, NOT SPECIFIC SHEETS.
                            ONLY HAVING A PARTIAL SET OF DRAWINGS SHALL NOT
                                 BE ACCEPTED AS AN EXCUSE FOR DELAYS OR
                                            INCOMPLETE WORK.




                           PROJECT NAME:




                           SHEET TITLE:




                           ISSUE:                  DRAWING NO.

                           SCALE:

                           DATE:
If this sheet is not 30"
by 42" it is a reduced                                                      K&A Architecture Inc. All rights reserved. No part of
print, scale accordingly                                                this document may be reproduced or utilized in any form
                                                                        without prior written authorization of K&A Architecture Inc.




                                                                                                   architecture

                                                                         Kiley & Associates Architecture, Inc.




                                                                                                      OF U
                                                                                                TE            TA
                                                                                              TA




                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                H
                                                                                                                     CT
                                                                                       L IC




                                                                                                                TE
                                                                                              NS




                                                                                          E
                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                   E D AR C H

                                                                            Donald P. Kiley, License #12432021-0331
                                                                                    Expiration Date 05/31/24

                                                                           Architect Licensed in the following states:
                                                                              OH, FL, TN, IL, IN, KY, MI, MN,
                                                                          AZ, NJ, WV, VA, PA, MD, DE, ID, SC, UT




                            Not Used                                    NO.                   DESCRIPTION
                                                                                           REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                DATE




                                                                          * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                          NO SUBCONTRACTOR SHOULD BE PROVIDED WITH A
                                                                            PARTIAL SET OF PLANS FOR EITHER BIDDING OR
                                                                          CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES WITHOUT FIRST TAKING
                                                                        AMPLE TIME TO REVIEW A COMPLETE SET IN ORDER TO
                                                                         DETERMINE FOR THEMSELVES THE INFORMATION AND
                                                                        DOCUMENTATION THEY WISH TO HAVE COPIED. THERE
                                                                              ARE MANY CROSS-REFERENCES IN A SET OF
                                                                          CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. ANY DISCREPANCIES
                                                                       SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE DESIGN
                                                                             PROFESSIONAL FOR FORMAL CLARIFICATION.
                                                                       SUBCONTRACTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR BIDDING AND
                                                                        CONSTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE COMPLETE
                                                                          CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS, NOT SPECIFIC SHEETS.
                                                                        ONLY HAVING A PARTIAL SET OF DRAWINGS SHALL NOT
                                                                             BE ACCEPTED AS AN EXCUSE FOR DELAYS OR
                                                                                        INCOMPLETE WORK.




                                                                       PROJECT NAME:




                                                                       SHEET TITLE:




                                                                       ISSUE:                  DRAWING NO.

   Not Used                 A10       Exterior Material Calculations   SCALE:

                           No Scale                                    DATE:
   EXHIBIT H
LANDSCAPE PLANS
If this sheet is not 30"
by 42" it is a reduced                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       K&A Architecture Inc. All rights reserved. No part of
print, scale accordingly                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 this document may be reproduced or utilized in any form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         without prior written authorization of K&A Architecture Inc.




           LANDSCAPE NOTES:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PERIMETER: NORTH A - 328 LF

           1. REGULATIONS & STANDARDS
             1.1.     All contractor work shall be conducted in accordance with USPWC (Utah Standard
                                                                                                                  NOTES:
                                                                                                                  1. DO NOT DAMAGE OR CUT LEADER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TREE CANOPY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REPAIR & REPLACE LAWN IN ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AREAS, ADD NEW TO MATCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXISTING AS NEEDED, TYP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PRESERVE & PROTECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TREES, TYP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TREE CANOPY             TRASH ENCLOSURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SEE ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAWINGS, DETAILS & MATERIALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3 TREES (EXISTING) // 2 EXTRA ADDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30 SHRUBS (NEW)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REQUIRED FOR COMPLIANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               architecture
                                                                                                                  2. DO NOT DISTURB ROOT OR DAMAGE ROOT BALL WHEN INSTALLING TREE OR TREE STAKES.
                      Public Works Construction), 2021 (or most recent published); and City of DRAPER,                                                                                                                               PERIMETER: WEST - 39 LF
                                                                                                                  3. TREE STAKING SHALL BE AT THE DISCRETION OF CONTRACTOR. HOWEVER ANY TREES DISTURBED
                      UT codes, standards and state and local regulations.                                                                                                                                                                 1 TREE (EXISTING)
                                                                                                                     FROM PLUMB DURING THE PLANT WARRANTEE PERIOD WILL BE REPAIRED OR REPLACED AT
           2. EXISTING CONDITIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                            4 SHRUBS (NEW)
                                                                                                                     CONTRACTOR'S EXPENSE.
             2.1.     All utilities shall be located prior to construction and protected. Any damage to                                                                                                                           REQUIRED FOR COMPLIANCE
                                                                                                                  4. WATER PLANTS THOROUGHLY IMMEDIATELY AFTER INSTILLATION.
                      structures, utilities or concrete will be replaced at contractor's expense.                 5. REMOVE ALL BURLAP, TWINE, ROPE, OR MATERIAL FROM THE TOP 31 OF THE ROOTBALL.
             2.2.     The site has many existing improvements such as underground utilities, curb and                                                                                                                             PERIMETER: NORTH B - 47 LF
                      gutter, light poles and sidewalks.
                                                                                                                  6. 5' DIAMETER PLANTER BED/MULCH RING AROUND THE TRUNK OF THE TREE. 3" OF MULCH MIN. DO
                                                                                                                     NOT PLACE MULCH WITHIN 2" OF TRUNK OF TREE.                                                                           1 TREE (EXISTING)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kiley & Associates Architecture, Inc.
             2.3.     See Engineer's plans for information about existing features.                                                                                                                                                          4 SHRUBS (NEW)
               2.3.1. Refer to civil plans for all existing and/or proposed drainage pipes & locations,                                                                                                                           REQUIRED FOR COMPLIANCE
                            utilities. Protect all drainage at all times, protect all utilities at all times.
           3. GRADING & SITE PREPARATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           135 W. Dorothy Lane
             3.1.     Prepare finish grades for planting by grubbing and removing weeds. If necessary                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Suite 200
                      apply Round-Up (or equivalent herbicide), using a certified applicator. Remove               TOP TWO STRUCTURAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kettering, OH 45429
                      rocks and other materials over 2".                                                           ROOTS: <3" BELOW TOP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    phone 937-294-3650
                                                                                                                                                                                  GRAFT VISIBLE ABOVE SOIL                                                                                                                               UTILITIES - KEEP TREES 10' AWAY TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                fax 937-294-3653
             3.2.     All gravel overprep to be removed and disposed of off site.                                  OF ROOTBALL.                                                                       LINE                                                                                                                               SCREEN YET KEEP SHRUBS CLEAR                                                                                                                                          TREES ADDED FOR PERIMETER                                                 info@kaarchitecture.com
             3.3.     Finish grade to be smooth transition to allow for entire site to be a natural flowing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KEEP TREE CLEAR OF EASEMENT                                               SET BACK FROM PERIMETER TO AVOID
                                                                                                                   LOWEST STRUCTURAL                                                                                                                                                                                                     FOR ACCESS
                      space.                                                                                                                                                       SOIL LINE OF THE TOP OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ENCROACHING EXISTING CANOPY
             3.4.     Fine grade lawn areas to elevations set by Engineer's plans with positive drainage           ROOT <5" BELOW TOP OF                                             THE ROOT BALL AFTER                                                                                                             ALL BUFFERS, 10' MIN WIDTH
                                                                                                                   ROOT BALL                                                       REMOVING EXCESS SOIL.
                      away from structures.
                                                                                                                                                          212"
             3.5.     Refer to Engineer's plans for grading information & for all drainage pipes and                                                                                        2-3" OF MULCH
                      locations. Protect and retain drainage at all times.                                                                                                                BACKFILL MIX SEE
             3.6.     No pooling or standing water will be accepted per industry standards.                                                                                                      NOTES AND




                                                                                                                                        612"
           4. SOILS                                                                                                                                                                        SPECIFICATIONS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WV
             4.1.     Lawn areas shall receive 12" min depth of screened topsoil.
             4.2.     All planter beds shall receive 18" min depth of screened topsoil.                           SOIL SAUCER >3" HIGH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRESERVE & PROTECT TREES, TYP
             4.3.     Reuse of existing topsoil that has been stockpiled on site is permitted if:                 REMOVE AT END OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROTECTIVE FENCING REQUIRED AROUND
               4.3.1. Topsoil is tested and analyzed to ensure a proper growing medium. Provide                   PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALL EXITING TREES TO BE PRESERVED,
                             additional amendments as determined by soil tests.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WITHIN 15' OF ANY CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY
               4.3.2. Topsoil is to be loose, friable sandy loam that is clean and free of toxic materials,       CUT AND FOLD WIRE
                            noxious weeds, weed seeds, rocks, grass or other foreign materials.                   BASKET FROM TOP OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PLANTER POTS, MATCH BUILDING EXTERIOR -                                                                                       Donald P. Kiley, License #12432021-0331
               4.3.3. Topsoil shall have a ph of 6.5 to 8.0.                                                      ROOTBALL                                                           COMPACT SOIL UNDER
                                                                                                                                                                                ROOTBALL TO 90% PROCTOR.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MANUFACTURED. PROVIDE POP-UPS FOR                                                                                                     Expiration Date 05/31/24
               4.3.4. If on site topsoil does not meet these minimum standards contractor is responsible                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IRRIGATION. PROVIDE DRAINS AT BOTTOM,
                             for providing approved imported topsoil or improving onsite topsoil per the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PIPED TO ADJACENT PLANTER BEDS.
                             approval of the project manager.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Architect Licensed in the following states:
             4.4.     If imported topsoil is used it must be from a local source and be screened free of                 BALL & BURLAP TREE PLANTING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OH, FL, TN, IL, IN, KY, MI, MN,
                      any debris or foreign matter. Topsoil must not contain rocks, sticks, lumps, or toxic
                      matter and has a pH of 6.5-8.0.
                                                                                                                 1       3/4" = 1'-0"                                                                3293-01                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AZ, NJ, WV, VA, PA, MD, DE, ID, SC, UT
             4.5.     Smooth, compact, and fine grade topsoil in lawn areas to smooth and uniform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * * * WARNING * * *
                      grade .5" below adjacent surfaces.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                The first Two (2) pages of this set of documents should contain a "red" seal with blue signature / date
             4.6.     Amend all new plantings with 2 parts topsoil, 1 part compost.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      over the seal. The seal should be embossed in order to distinguish the documents as the "official"
                                                                                                                NOTE:                                                     BACKFILL SHALL BE 100% TOPSOIL.
           5. LAWN AREAS                                                                                        REMOVE ALL TAGS, TWINE OR                                 WATER SETTLE ALL PLANTINGS TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         permit documents intended for permitting and construction. If the documents do not contain these
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             appropriate markings no permits should be issued nor should inspections be granted. K&A
             5.1.     Sodded lawn to match existing. Sodded lawn to be regionally/locally harvested, lay        OTHER NON BIODEGRADABLE                                   ENSURE PLANT ROOTBALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Architecture should be notified immediately of any such deficiencies.
                      sod within 24 hours of harvesting.                                                        MATERIALS ATTACHED TO PLANT OR                            MAINTAINS 21" HEIGHT ABOVE
             5.2.     Lay sod to form a solid mass with offset, tightly fitted joints on even grades.           ROOT MASS.                                                EXISTING SOILS WHEN COMPLETE.
             5.3.     Any existing lawn that is damaged shall be replaced with sodded lawn of the same
                      type of existing lawn.
             5.4.     All lawn areas adjacent to planter beds, gravel areas, or aggregate pathways shall
                      have 4" black steel edging installed per manufacturer recommendations. Other
                      applications to be approved by owner and landscape architect.
             5.5.     Lawn adjacent to buildings, structures shall be a minimum of 18" away from                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DARIAN
                      foundations. Lawn adjacent to fences or other screening elements shall be a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WESTRICK
                      minimum of 9" away.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11038247-5301
               5.5.1. Install 38" chips or other approved gravel mulch type in mow strip at a depth of 3"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             01.18.22
                             over commercial grade weed barrier fabric installed per manufacturer
                            recommendations.                                                                                                                                             MULCH 2" MIN.
             5.6.     Provide tree rings with a minimum 3' diameter around all trees located in lawn,                                                                                    AWAY FROM TRUNK
                      mulch type & installation/application to match all other planter beds.                    FOLD BURLAP FROM TOP                                                     OF PLANT.              PLANT SCHEDULE
           6. PLANTER BED MULCH                                                                                 OF ROOT BALL DOWN                                                        3" DEEP MULCH MIN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               TREES         BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                                                 CONT     CAL          SIZE    QTY      REMARKS
                                                                                                                INTO GROUND; SET TOP
             6.1.     All planter beds to receive 3" depth of rock mulch (match existing) or approved                                                                                                                        Gleditsia triacanthos inermis `Shademaster` TM / Shademaster Locust     B&B      2"                   8        35`H x 35`W, CLASS II                                                                 SCREEN TRANSFORMER WITH
                                                                                                                OF BALL FLUSH WITH
                      equal, submit for approval prior to placement. Install over commercial grade weed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLANT MATERIAL TYP.
                                                                                                                FINISH GRADE                                                               LAWN OR PAVING
                      barrier fabric per manufacturer recommendations.
           7. PLANTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




             7.1.     All plant material shall be installed per industry standards.                                                                                                                                          Malus x `Spring Snow` / Spring Snow Crabapple                           B&B      2.5"                 2        20`H x 20`W
             7.2.     All plant material shall meet or exceed the minimum federal standards as regulated        12" TO 18" FOR
                      by ANSI z60.1, American Standard for Nursery Stock. Plants not meeting these              LARGER SHRUB
                      standards for quality, or plants determined to be unhealthy by Owner's                    ROOT BALLS,
                      representative, will be rejected.                                                         MAKE DEPTH MIN.                                                                                              Picea omorika `Bruns` / Bruns Spruce                                    B&B                   7`-8`   6        30`H x 8`W                             AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                4" DEEPER THAN
             7.3.     All Ball and Burlap trees to be installed per Balled and Burlapped planting detail.
                                                                                                                BALL)
                      All shrubs to be installed per detail.
             7.4.     Trees and shrubs over 30" shall not be planted within clear vision triangles.                                                                            BALL AND BURLAP PLANT (IF
                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHRUBS        BOTANICAL / COMMON NAME                                                 CONT     FIELD2       SIZE    QTY      REMARKS
             7.5.     Fertilize all trees and shrubs with 'Agriform' planting tablets or approved equal.                                                                       CONTAINER - GROWN PLANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NO.                             DESCRIPTION                                            DATE
                      Apply per manufacturers recommendations.                                                  SOIL SURFACE                                                   WITH ROOTS LOOSENED AND                       Acer palmatum `Dissectum Red Dragon` / Red Dragon Japanese Maple        10 gal                        8        Ornamental, 5`H x 5`W
           8. IRRIGATION
             8.1.     Retrofit existing as needed, stub new drip to planter beds & pots.
                                                                                                                ROUGHENED TO
                                                                                                                BIND WITH NEW SOIL
                                                                                                                                                                               PULLED OUT TO PREVENT
                                                                                                                                                                               PLANT FROM BECOMING ROOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18" H MIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                               BOUND)                                        Artemisia frigida 'Powis Castle) / Powis Castle Fringed Sage            2 gal                         58       30"h X 30"W
             8.2.     Irrigation system shall be built to the following specifications:
             8.3.     Adhere to city codes when connecting to city water.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18" H MIN
             8.4.     All irrigation material to be new with manufacturers' warranty fully intact.
                                                                                                                         SHRUB PLANTING
             8.5.     Install outdoor rated controller in specified location on plan, in a lock box with 2
                      keys. Coordinate with project manager and general contractor on exact location.            2       1" = 1'-0"                                                                329333-03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Berberis thunbergii `Helmond Pillar` / Helmond Pillar Barberry          5 gal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18" H MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30       4`H x 2`W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NO SUBCONTRACTOR SHOULD BE PROVIDED WITH A
               8.5.1. Controller to have On/Off rain switch or rain shut off device that does not alter                                                                                                                      Physocarpus opulifolius `Monlo` TM / Diabolo Purple Ninebark            B&B                   3 gal   39       6`H x 10`W                                                                                                                                                                                                       PARTIAL SET OF PLANS FOR EITHER BIDDING OR
                            program.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18" H MIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES WITHOUT FIRST TAKING
             8.6.     All remote control valves (including master control valve) to have flow control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AMPLE TIME TO REVIEW A COMPLETE SET IN ORDER TO
                      device.                                                                                                                                                                                                Pinus mugo 'Slowmound' / Slowmound Mugo Pine                            7 gal                         31       3'H x 4'W                                                                                                                                                                                                     DETERMINE FOR THEMSELVES THE INFORMATION AND
             8.7.     Irrigation system piping to be minimum class 200 PVC or approved equal, sleeves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18" H MIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DOCUMENTATION THEY WISH TO HAVE COPIED. THERE
                      to be double the size of pipes located within, all wires to be contained in separate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PLANTER POTS, MATCH BUILDING EXTERIOR -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MANUFACTURED. PROVIDE POP-UPS FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ARE MANY CROSS-REFERENCES IN A SET OF
                      sleeves 1-1/2" dia min.                                                                                                                                                                                Rhamnus frangula `Fine Line` / Fine Line Buchthorn                      5 gal                         66       7`H x 3`W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IRRIGATION. PROVIDE DRAINS AT BOTTOM,                                                                                    CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. ANY DISCREPANCIES
             8.8.     All pipe above 3" caliper to be gasketed, with approved joint restraints at all 45,                                                                                                                                                                                                     18" H MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PIPED TO ADJACENT PLANTER BEDS.                                                                                       SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE DESIGN
                      TEE, ELL, 22, 11.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHRUBS TO BE 18" MIN HEIGHT AT TIME OF PLANTING, SIZE UP GALLON OF SHRUB TO MEET AS NECESSARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROFESSIONAL FOR FORMAL CLARIFICATION.
             8.9.     Use common trenching where possible..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SUBCONTRACTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR BIDDING AND
             8.10. All PVC located under hardscapes to be schedule 40 PVC with same req's as                                                                                                                   PROTECTIVE FENCING IS REQUIRED AROUND ALL EXISTING TREES WHICH ARE TO BE PRESERVED, PER CODE 9-27-070; ALL EXISTING TREES 4"                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONSTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE COMPLETE
                      above.                                                                                                                                                                                   DIA AT 4' OR DBH. FENCING SHALL BE PLACED ON ALL TREES WITHING 15' OF ANY CONSTRUCTION-STAGING-DEMO OR ANY OTHER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS, NOT SPECIFIC SHEETS.
             8.11. All wires to be Paige wire 7350 or 7351 direct bury wire at a minimum of 12" below                                                                                                          CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DURING THE PROCESS, OR ANY LIMIT OF ANY TREE CANOPY EXTENT / CRITICAL ROOT ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ONLY HAVING A PARTIAL SET OF DRAWINGS SHALL NOT
                      finished grade.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BE ACCEPTED AS AN EXCUSE FOR DELAYS OR
             8.12. Connect mainline to point of connection in approximate location shown on plan.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INCOMPLETE WORK.
             8.13. Contractor is responsible complying with all codes and paying all permits
                      necessary.
             8.14. Sprinkler heads shall have matched precipitation within each control circuit.
                      Velocities shall not exceed 5 feet per second.
             8.15. All drip irrigation to be buried 2" below finished grade.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT NAME:
             8.16. Water schedule to be provided at a min of 80% evapotranspiration as determined
                      by the local ET.
             8.17. Install all irrigation per irrigation drawings. utilize material specified or approved
                      equal.
             8.18. Contractor shall confirm the static water pressure at least five days before
                      construction begins and to contact the landscape architect in writing if the pressure
                      is below 65 psi.
             8.19. If any discrepancies are found, then local codes shall prevail.
           9. CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITIES
             9.1.     Estimated quantities are shown for general reference only. Contractor shall be
                      responsible for all quantity estimates.
             9.2.     All plant material and workmanship shall be guaranteed for a period of one year
                      beginning at the date of Acceptance by Owner. Replace all dead or unhealthy
                      plant material immediately with same type and size at no cost to Owner.
             9.3.     Landscape contractor to turn in as built drawings at the end of project. Substantial
                      completion will not be granted until 2 copies @ 1"=20' scale are turned in and
                      approved by owner's representative.
           10. In the event of a discrepancy, notify the Landscape Architect immediately.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0                                  20           40           60   feet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BOONDOCKS FUN CENTER
       LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NORTH           SCALE: 1" = 20'
       CODE REQUIREMENTS PER CITY CODE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       75 Southfork Dr.
       BUFFER
        *1 SHADE TREE & 9 SHRUBS PER 100 LF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Draper, UT 84020
       ·     BUFFER                              LENGTH (LF)                TREES/SHRUBS REQUIRED                TREES/SHRUBS PROVIDED
       ·     NORTH A                             328                        3 / 30                               3 (EXISTING) / 30
       ·     WEST                                39                         1/4                                  1 (EXISTING) / 4
       ·     NORTH B                             47                         1/ 4                                 1 (EXISTING) / 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAWN BY:                          DATE              PROJECT NO.

       MINIMUM PLANT SIZES:
       PLANT TYPE:                        MINIMUM SIZE
       *EVERGREEN TREES:                  6'-0" HT. MIN.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHECKED BY:                        DATE               Q.A. BY:                            DATE
       *ORNAMENTAL TREES:                 2" CALIPER MIN. & 6'-0" HEIGHT
       *SHADE TREES:                      2" CALIPER MIN.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET TITLE:
       *WOODY SHRUBS:                     18" HEIGHT MIN FROM GROUND AT TIME OF PLANTING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ARCHITECTURE
       MEASURED 6" UP FROM GROUND UP TO 4" CALIPER, 4" AND OVER SHALL BE MEASURED 12" UP FROM GROUND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            & MASTER PLANNING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THE GRAPHICS AND DESIGNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ON THIS SHEET ARE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DELIVERABLES THAT REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AT ALL TIMES PROPERTY OF                                                                                                       LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STACK ROCK GROUP, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REPRODUCTION OR REUSE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THIS PRODUCT CONTAINED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HERE IN IS PROHIBITED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CO NSENT OF STACK RO CK                                                                       ISSUE:                              DRAWING NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G R O U P ,      I N C .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SCALE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ©2022 STACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ROCK GROUP, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DATE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L100
If this sheet is not 30"
by 42" it is a reduced                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K&A Architecture Inc. All rights reserved. No part of
print, scale accordingly                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     this document may be reproduced or utilized in any form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             without prior written authorization of K&A Architecture Inc.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   architecture

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kiley & Associates Architecture, Inc.

                                                                                                                                                              AeccDbFace (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                              AeccDbSvFigure (AeccSurvey130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               135 W. Dorothy Lane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Suite 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kettering, OH 45429
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               phone 937-294-3650
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AeccDbFace (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 fax 937-294-3653
                                                                                                                        PRESERVE &                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           info@kaarchitecture.com
                                                                                                                        PROTECT TREES, TYP




                                                                                                         AeccDbFace (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PRESERVE & PROTECT TREES, TYP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REMOVE EXISTING TREES, TYP                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROTECTIVE FENCING REQUIRED AROUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALL EXITING TREES TO BE PRESERVED,
                           EX S                                         EX S                   EX S                                  EX S              EX S                                                                                                     EX S                                                                                                                                          EX S                                                                                                                                                     WITHIN 15' OF ANY CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY
                                                                EX-SD                     EX-SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PRESERVE & PROTECT TREES, TYP
                                                                                                                                             EX-SD                                                                            EX-SD                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX-SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Y




                                                                                   WV


                                                                                        EX W          EX W                                      EX W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Donald P. Kiley, License #12432021-0331
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)                                                                                                                                                                                    AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)                                                                                                                                                                               AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                               EX W                                                                    EX W                                                                                                                                       EX W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)                                                                                                                                                                                   AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)                                                                                                                                                                              AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WV                             AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)                                                                                                                                                                              AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)                                                                                                                                                                               AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Expiration Date 05/31/24




                                                                                   D
                                                                                   Y




                                                                               H
                                  AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXISTING TREES, TYP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Architect Licensed in the following states:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OH, FL, TN, IL, IN, KY, MI, MN,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX-SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AZ, NJ, WV, VA, PA, MD, DE, ID, SC, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            The first Two (2) pages of this set of documents should contain a "red" seal with blue signature / date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             over the seal. The seal should be embossed in order to distinguish the documents as the "official"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             permit documents intended for permitting and construction. If the documents do not contain these
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 appropriate markings no permits should be issued nor should inspections be granted. K&A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Architecture should be notified immediately of any such deficiencies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX-SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DARIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)                                                                                                                                     AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WESTRICK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11038247-5301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 01.18.22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EX-SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Y D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)                                                                                                                                                                               AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AeccDbFace (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AeccDbGrading
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AeccDbSvFigure  (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (AeccSurvey130)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AeccDbFace (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AeccDbGrading
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AeccDbSvFigure  (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (AeccSurvey130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NO.                             DESCRIPTION                                            DATE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REVISIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NO SUBCONTRACTOR SHOULD BE PROVIDED WITH A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARTIAL SET OF PLANS FOR EITHER BIDDING OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES WITHOUT FIRST TAKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AeccDbFace (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AeccDbGrading
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AeccDbSvFigure  (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (AeccSurvey130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AeccDbFace (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AeccDbGrading
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AeccDbSvFigure  (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (AeccSurvey130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AMPLE TIME TO REVIEW A COMPLETE SET IN ORDER TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DETERMINE FOR THEMSELVES THE INFORMATION AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DOCUMENTATION THEY WISH TO HAVE COPIED. THERE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ARE MANY CROSS-REFERENCES IN A SET OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. ANY DISCREPANCIES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX-SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EX W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AeccDbFace (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AeccDbGrading
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AeccDbSvFigure  (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (AeccSurvey130)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROFESSIONAL FOR FORMAL CLARIFICATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUBCONTRACTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR BIDDING AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)                                                                                                                                                                    AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)                                                                                                                                                                      AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONSTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE COMPLETE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS, NOT SPECIFIC SHEETS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ONLY HAVING A PARTIAL SET OF DRAWINGS SHALL NOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BE ACCEPTED AS AN EXCUSE FOR DELAYS OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INCOMPLETE WORK.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EX W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT NAME:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)                                                                                                                                                                      AeccDbGrading (AeccLand130)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0                                         20                                 40                                                                                                               60                                          feet



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NORTH                                                           SCALE: 1" = 20'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BOONDOCKS FUN CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 75 Southfork Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Draper, UT 84020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAWN BY:                          DATE              PROJECT NO.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHECKED BY:                        DATE               Q.A. BY:                            DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ARCHITECTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           & MASTER PLANNING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THE GRAPHICS AND DESIGNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ON THIS SHEET ARE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DELIVERABLES THAT REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AT ALL TIMES PROPERTY OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TREE DEMO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STACK ROCK GROUP, INC.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REPRODUCTION OR REUSE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THIS PRODUCT CONTAINED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HERE IN IS PROHIBITED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CO NSENT OF STACK RO CK                                                                                                                                                                                     ISSUE:                              DRAWING NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G R O U P ,      I N C .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SCALE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ©2022 STACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROCK GROUP, INC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DATE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L150
    EXHIBIT I
SKY TRAIL DETAILS
If this sheet is not 30"
by 42" it is a reduced          K&A Architecture Inc. All rights reserved. No part of
print, scale accordingly    this document may be reproduced or utilized in any form
                            without prior written authorization of K&A Architecture Inc.




                                                                   architecture

                               Kiley & Associates Architecture, Inc.




                                                                           OF U
                                                               TE                       TA
                                                             TA




                                                        S




                                                                                            H
                                                                                                 CT
                                                    L IC




                                                                                           TE
                                                            NS




                                                         E
                                                                                             I
                                                                   E D AR C H

                                   Donald P. Kiley, License #12432021-0331
                                           Expiration Date 05/31/24

                                  Architect Licensed in the following states:
                                     OH, FL, TN, IL, IN, KY, MI, MN,
                                 AZ, NJ, WV, VA, PA, MD, DE, ID, SC, UT
                                                                      * * * WARNING * * *
                           The first Two (2) pages of this set of documents should contain a "red" seal with blue signature / date
                            over the seal. The seal should be embossed in order to distinguish the documents as the "official"
                            permit documents intended for permitting and construction. If the documents do not contain these
                                appropriate markings no permits should be issued nor should inspections be granted. K&A
                                           Architecture should be notified immediately of any such deficiencies.




                            NO.                             DESCRIPTION                                             DATE
                                                          REVISIONS

                                 * * * WARNING * * *
                              NO SUBCONTRACTOR SHOULD BE PROVIDED WITH A
                                PARTIAL SET OF PLANS FOR EITHER BIDDING OR
                              CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES WITHOUT FIRST TAKING
                            AMPLE TIME TO REVIEW A COMPLETE SET IN ORDER TO
                             DETERMINE FOR THEMSELVES THE INFORMATION AND
                            DOCUMENTATION THEY WISH TO HAVE COPIED. THERE
                                  ARE MANY CROSS-REFERENCES IN A SET OF
                              CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. ANY DISCREPANCIES
                           SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE DESIGN
                                 PROFESSIONAL FOR FORMAL CLARIFICATION.
                           SUBCONTRACTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR BIDDING AND
                            CONSTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE COMPLETE
                              CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS, NOT SPECIFIC SHEETS.
                            ONLY HAVING A PARTIAL SET OF DRAWINGS SHALL NOT
                                 BE ACCEPTED AS AN EXCUSE FOR DELAYS OR
                                            INCOMPLETE WORK.




                           PROJECT NAME:




                           SHEET TITLE:




                           ISSUE:                              DRAWING NO.

                           SCALE:

                           DATE:
                                                                                                                         BUMPER BOATS POOL
                                                                                                                         EXISTING BOONDOCKS




                                DISCLAIMER NOTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11x17 = 20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   24x36 = 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SCALE IN FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20




                                                                                     DATE:                                       REVISIONS
                                                                                     FEB 2022               REV DATE   BY COMMENTS                                                       LI CENS ED
                                                  GRADING & DRAINAGE PLAN                                                                                                   S
          PROJ. #
                                                                                                                                                                          TA




                                                                                     DRAWING NAME:
                    REVISION:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PR




                                                                                     C.302 GRADING
                                                                                                                                                                       TE




                                                    BOONDOCKS ENTERTAINMENT CENTER   & DRAINAGE PLAN                                                                                                                                                                    ILSON
                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS




                                                          75 SOUTHFORK DRIVE         DESIGNED/DRAWN BY:                                                                                                                                                                 E NGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2/9/2022




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Consulting Engineers & Surveyors
                                                                                                                                                                                                 No. 362118




                                                                                                                                                                       OF U




                                                                                     TS/BP
                                                                                                                                                                                     Gilson
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OFE IONAL




                                                                                                                                                                           AT




C.302




                                                          DRAPER, UTAH 84020                                                                                                    H       EN                                             12401 SOUTH 450 EAST BUILDING C, UNIT 2, DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                    Bradley S.




        BDU.011




                                                                                     CHECKED:   APPROVED:   0                                                                                                                          PHONE: (801) 571-9414 FAX: (801) 571-9449
                                                                                                                                                                                          G I NEER
                                                                                                                             1" SCALE MEASURES 1" ON FULL SIZE SHEET
                                                        SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                        ADJUST FOR HALF SIZE SHEETS
                                                                                        ---        ---
   EXHIBIT J
LIGHTING PLANS
If this sheet is not 30"
by 42" it is a reduced                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          K&A Architecture Inc. All rights reserved. No part of
print, scale accordingly                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    this document may be reproduced or utilized in any form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            without prior written authorization of K&A Architecture Inc.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1   0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.6         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4             0.4         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.4         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.2         0.1         0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  architecture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2   0.2   0.3    0.5   0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8         1.0         1.3         1.6         2.1         2.8         3.6         4.7         5.7         6.4         6.7         6.5         5.9         5.1         4.4         3.8         3.5         3.4         3.5         3.9             4.5         5.4         6.2         6.9         7.2         7.1         6.5         5.7         4.9         4.1         3.6         3.3         3.3         3.6         4.1         4.8         5.7         6.5         7.1         7.1         6.8         6.0         5.2         4.3         3.8         3.4         3.3         3.5         3.8         4.4         5.3         6.1         6.8         7.0         6.7         6.0         5.0         4.0         3.1         2.4         1.9         1.6         1.3         1.1         0.9         0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2   0.3   0.4    0.6   0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.1         1.4         1.7         2.1         2.8         3.6         4.9         6.2         7.7         9.1         7.4         9.2         7.9         6.6         5.8         4.9         4.5         4.4         4.6         5.1             5.9         7.2         8.2         9.6         8.0         10.2        8.9         7.5         6.4         5.3         4.6         4.3         4.3         4.7         5.3         6.5         7.5         8.9         10.0        8.0         9.5         8.1         6.7         5.7         4.8         4.4         4.3         4.5         4.9         5.8         6.9         8.1         9.4         7.7         9.6         8.2         6.6         5.4         4.0         3.1         2.5         2.0         1.7         1.4         1.1         0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3   0.4   0.5    0.7   0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.3         1.6         2.0         2.4         3.2         4.1         5.7         6.9         8.9         10.8        11.6        10.9        9.2         7.5         6.8         5.6         5.2         5.1         5.3         5.9             6.8         8.2         9.5         11.3        12.4        12.1        10.5        8.6         7.3         6.0         5.3         5.1         5.1         5.5         6.1         7.6         8.5         10.3        11.8        12.3        11.2        9.4         7.7         6.7         5.6         5.2         5.0         5.2         5.7         6.6         7.8         9.3         11.1        12.0        11.4        9.6         7.5         6.3         4.6         3.6         2.9         2.4         2.0         1.6         1.3         1.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PL1                                                                                                                                                                                PL1                                                                                                                                                                         PL1                                                                                                                                                                           PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Project No. 21-314
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3   0.4   0.5    0.7   1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.3         1.7         2.1         2.6         3.3         4.2         5.5         7.2         8.8         10.6        11.3        10.7        9.2         7.9         6.8         5.9         5.6         5.6         5.9         6.4             7.2         8.8         9.8         11.4        12.3        12.0        10.5        8.8         7.7         6.3         5.7         5.5         5.5         5.9         6.4         7.6         8.9         10.3        11.7        12.1        11.1        9.5         8.2         6.8         6.0         5.6         5.5         5.7         6.1         6.9         8.4         9.4         10.9        11.7        11.2        9.6         7.8         6.4         4.8         4.0         3.3         2.7         2.3         1.9         1.5         1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3   0.4   0.6    0.8   1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.4         1.7         2.1         2.6         3.2         4.0         5.0         6.5         8.0         9.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9.8         9.4         8.5         7.4         6.4         5.9         5.7         5.8         6.0         6.5             7.3         8.2         9.6         10.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11.0        10.7        9.7         8.4         7.0         6.2         5.8         5.6         5.7         6.0         6.5         7.3         8.5         9.7         10.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1   10.6        10.0        8.9         7.7         6.6         6.0         5.7         5.7         5.8         6.2         6.8         7.7         8.9         9.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.3        10.0        8.8         7.4         5.9         4.8         4.0         3.4         3.0         2.5         2.1         1.6         1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3   0.4   0.6    0.8   1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.3         1.6         2.0         2.4         3.0         3.6         4.3         5.3         6.4         7.4         7.7         7.6         6.9         6.2         5.7         5.5         5.5         5.7         6.0         6.4             6.9         7.5         8.3         9.0         9.2         8.8         8.0         7.0         6.2         5.7         5.6         5.5         5.6         5.9         6.2         6.7         7.4         8.2         8.7         8.7         8.3         7.5         6.7         6.1         5.8         5.6         5.7         5.8         6.0         6.3         6.8         7.5         8.1         8.3         8.1         7.3         6.3         5.3         4.6         4.0         3.6         3.1         2.7         2.2         1.7         1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3   0.4   0.5    0.7   0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.2         1.5         1.8         2.2         2.6         3.0         3.6         4.2         4.9         5.5         5.7         5.7         5.4         5.1         5.0         5.0         5.2         5.5         5.8         6.2             6.6         7.0         7.4         7.6         7.5         7.1         6.5         5.8         5.4         5.2         5.2         5.3         5.4         5.7         5.9         6.2         6.5         6.9         7.0         6.8         6.6         6.1         5.7         5.5         5.4         5.4         5.5         5.6         5.7         5.9         6.0         6.2         6.4         6.4         6.3         5.8         5.3         4.8         4.3         4.0         3.6         3.2         2.8         2.3         1.8         1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9                                                               Kiley & Associates Architecture, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KEYED NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3   0.4   0.5    0.6   0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.0         1.3         1.5         1.8         2.2         2.5         2.9         3.3         3.7         4.1         4.2         4.3         4.2         4.2         4.3         4.5         4.8         5.1         5.6         6.0             6.3         6.6         6.7         6.7         6.3         5.8         5.3         4.8         4.7         4.7         4.7         4.9         5.1         5.4         5.6         5.7         5.8         5.9         5.7         5.5         5.3         5.1         4.9         4.9         5.0         5.1         5.2         5.4         5.4         5.4         5.3         5.3         5.2         5.1         4.9         4.8         4.5         4.3         4.1         3.9         3.7         3.3         3.0         2.5         1.9         1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2   0.3   0.4    0.6   0.7         0.8         1.0         1.2         1.5         1.7         1.9         2.2         2.5         2.8         3.0         3.1         3.2         3.2         3.3         3.6         3.9         4.3         4.8         5.3         5.8             6.1         6.4         6.5         6.2         5.7         5.0         4.4         4.1         4.0         4.1         4.3         4.6         4.9         5.1         5.3         5.3         5.3         5.1         4.8         4.5         4.3         4.2         4.3         4.4         4.6         4.8         5.0         5.1         5.1         5.0         4.8         4.5         4.2         4.0         3.9         4.0         4.0         4.0         4.0         3.9         3.7         3.5         3.1         2.6         2.0         1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2   0.3   0.4    0.5   0.5         0.6           x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8         0.9         1.1         1.2         1.4         1.6         1.7         1.9         2.1         2.2         2.3         2.4         2.5         2.9         3.3         3.9         4.5         5.0         5.6             6.1         6.4         6.5         6.2         5.4         4.5         3.7         3.3         3.3         3.6         3.9         4.3         4.6         4.8         5.0         5.0         4.9         4.6         4.2         3.7         3.5         3.5         3.7         4.0         4.3         4.6         4.8         4.9         4.9         4.7         4.4         3.9         3.5         3.1         3.2         3.4         3.5         3.7         3.8         3.9         3.9         3.7         3.4         2.8         2.2         1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2   0.2   0.3    0.3   0.4         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.8         0.8         1.0         1.0         1.1         1.2         1.3         1.4         1.5         1.8         2.2         2.8         3.5         4.2         4.9         5.7             6.4         7.0         7.2         6.6         5.4         4.1         3.0         2.6         2.8         3.1         3.6         4.0         4.4         4.8         5.0         5.1         4.9         4.4         3.8         3.1         2.8         2.8         3.1         3.6         4.0         4.4         4.8         5.0         5.0         4.8         4.3         3.5         2.8         2.4         2.5         2.8         3.1         3.5         3.8         4.1         4.2         4.2         3.9         3.3         2.5         1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   #   SYMBOL USED FOR NOTE CALLOUT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1   0.2   0.2    0.2   0.3         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.8         1.2         1.7         2.4         3.2         4.0         5.0         6.0             7.3         8.1         7.9         7.2         5.9         4.0         2.6         2.1         2.4         2.9         3.4         3.9         4.5         5.0         5.4         5.5         5.3         4.6         3.7         2.7         2.3         2.3         2.8         3.4         3.9         4.5         5.0         5.4         5.5         5.2         4.5         3.5         2.5         1.9         2.0         2.4         2.9         3.4         3.9         4.4         4.8         4.9         4.7         4.0         3.0         1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8                                                                                               135 W. Dorothy Lane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Suite 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.5         0.8         1.4         2.2         3.1         4.1         5.3         6.7             8.5         9.3         9.5         8.5         6.5         4.2         2.4         1.9         2.2         2.8         3.4         4.0         4.8         5.6         6.3         6.9         6.7         5.7         4.1         2.8         2.0         2.2         2.7         3.4         4.1         4.8         5.6         6.3         7.0         6.7         5.6         4.0         2.6         1.7         1.8         2.3         2.9         3.5         4.3         5.0         5.8         6.4         6.3         5.3         3.7         2.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.   EXISTING LIGHT FIXTURE TO REMAIN.                                                      Kettering, OH 45429
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.6         1.2         2.1         3.1         4.2         5.6         7.5             9.6         10.8        11.3        9.8         7.2         4.6         2.5         1.9         2.3         2.9         3.6         4.4         5.4         6.6         7.9         8.1         7.8         6.7         5.0         3.0         2.1         2.2         2.9         3.6         4.5         5.5         6.7         8.0         8.1         7.8         6.6         4.8         2.8         1.8         1.9         2.5         3.1         3.9         4.9         6.0         7.3         7.6         7.3         6.3         4.6         2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              phone 937-294-3650
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.5         1.1         2.0         3.1         4.2         5.7         7.7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2   10.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11.6        12.1        8.1         7.5         4.8         2.7         2.0         2.4         3.2         3.9         4.9         6.2         7.9         9.4         10.1        9.8         8.1         5.7         3.4         2.3         2.4         3.1         3.9         5.0         6.3         8.0         9.4         10.1        9.8         8.0         5.6         3.2         2.0         2.1         2.7         3.4         4.4         5.6         7.2         8.7         9.4         9.2         7.7         5.3         2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.   EXISTING LIGHT FIXTURE TO BE REMOVED AND REPLACED                                        fax 937-294-3653
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.5         1.2         2.0         3.0         4.2         5.7         7.6             9.6         11.0        11.5        10.0        7.4         4.8         2.8         2.1         2.5         3.3         4.2         5.3         6.8         9.0         10.7        11.9        11.6        9.2         6.3         3.7         2.4         2.6         3.4         4.2         5.4         7.0         9.1         10.8        11.9        11.5        9.1         6.3         3.6         2.2         2.3         2.9         3.6         4.7         6.1         8.1         9.9         11.0        10.8        8.6         5.8         3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IN THE SAME LOCATION.                                                                info@kaarchitecture.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.5         1.1         2.0         2.9         4.0         5.3         6.8             8.6         9.5         9.8         8.7         6.9         4.6         2.8         2.2         2.6         3.4         4.3         5.5         7.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.3         11.2  PL1   12.5        9.5         9.7         6.6         4.0         2.6         2.7         3.5         4.4         5.6         7.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.5           PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11.3        12.6        9.5         9.6         6.6         3.8         2.4         2.4         3.0         3.8         4.8         6.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.2         10.1   PL1  11.4        8.5         8.9         5.9         3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.6         1.1         1.9         2.7         3.7         4.7         6.0             7.3         8.2         8.1         7.4         6.1         4.4         2.9         2.4         2.7         3.5         4.4         5.6         7.1         9.1         10.8        11.7        11.4        9.2         6.5         4.0         2.7         2.8         3.5         4.5         5.7         7.3         9.2         10.9        11.8        11.4        9.1         6.5         3.9         2.5         2.4         3.0         3.8         4.8         6.1         7.8         9.4         10.3        10.1        8.1         5.6         3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.   EXISTING LIGHT FIXTURE TO BE REMOVED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.3         0.6         1.1         1.8         2.5         3.4         4.3         5.3             6.2         6.9         7.3         6.7         5.5         4.2         3.0         2.5         2.8         3.5         4.3         5.5         6.8         8.4         9.8         10.2        9.8         8.2         6.0         3.8         2.6         2.7         3.5         4.5         5.6         6.9         8.5         9.8         10.3        9.8         8.2         6.0         3.8         2.5         2.4         3.0         3.7         4.5         5.6         6.9         8.1         8.5         8.1         6.8         4.8         2.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.3         0.5         1.0         1.6         2.3         3.1         4.0         4.8             5.5         6.0         6.1         5.8         5.0         4.1         3.1         2.7         2.9         3.5         4.3         5.3         6.5         7.6         8.8         9.0         8.4         7.2         5.5         3.6         2.6         2.7         3.5         4.4         5.5         6.6         7.7         8.9         9.0         8.5         7.4         5.6         3.7         2.6         2.5         3.0         3.6         4.3         5.1         5.9         6.8         7.0         6.4         5.5         4.0         2.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.5         0.9         1.4         2.1         2.9         3.7         4.5             5.1         5.6         5.7         5.5         5.0         4.2         3.4         3.1         3.1         3.6         4.4         5.3         6.3         7.2         7.9         8.1         7.7         6.5         4.9         3.5         2.6         2.8         3.5         4.5         5.4         6.4         7.3         7.9         8.2         7.8         6.7         5.2         3.7         2.7         2.6         3.0         3.6         4.1         4.7         5.2         5.5         5.6         5.2         4.3         3.1         1.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.3         0.5         0.8         1.3         2.0         2.7         3.6         4.3             5.0         5.5         5.8         5.7         5.4         4.8         4.0         3.4         3.3         3.7         4.5         5.4         6.3         7.2         7.7         7.8         7.3         6.3         4.9         3.4         2.7         2.9         3.6         4.5         5.5         6.4         7.2         7.7         7.9         7.5         6.5         5.2         3.7         2.9         2.8         3.1         3.6         4.1         4.4         4.7         4.7         4.5         4.0         3.3         2.5         1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1   0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.4         0.5         0.8         1.3         1.9         2.6         3.5         4.2             5.0         5.7         6.1         6.3         6.1         5.6         4.8         3.9         3.6         3.9         4.6         5.6         6.5         7.4         8.0         8.2         7.7         6.6         5.1         3.5         2.7         2.9         3.8         4.7         5.6         6.6         7.5         8.1         8.3         7.9         6.9         5.5         4.0         3.0         3.0         3.3         3.7         4.1         4.3         4.5         4.3         3.9         3.4         2.7         2.0         1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.6         0.8         1.2         1.8         2.6         3.5         4.3             5.3         6.1         6.9         7.6         7.9         7.2         6.1         4.7         3.9         4.1         4.9         5.9         7.0         8.1         9.1         9.7         9.1         7.8         5.7         3.9         2.8         3.1         3.9         4.9         5.9         7.0         8.1         9.1         9.8         9.3         8.1         6.2         4.4         3.3         3.2         3.6         3.9         4.2         4.4         4.4         4.1         3.6         3.0         2.3         1.6         1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2   0.2   0.2    0.2   0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.9         1.3         1.8         2.7         3.5         4.4             5.7         6.9         8.1         9.1         9.1         8.4         7.1         5.5         4.4         4.3         5.2         6.3         7.6         9.1         10.6        10.7        10.3        8.8         6.5         4.2         3.1         3.2         4.1         5.1         6.3         7.6         9.2         10.6        10.8        10.4        9.1         7.1         4.9         3.8         3.5         3.9         4.2         4.5         4.6         4.5         4.1         3.5         2.8         2.0         1.5         1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3   0.4   0.4    0.5   0.5         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.9         1.0         1.1         1.3         1.6         2.1         2.9         3.8         4.7             6.4         7.9         9.6         10.8        11.2        10.3        8.2         6.3         4.8         4.6         5.5         6.8         8.3         10.3        11.9        12.6        12.2        10.1        7.3         4.6         3.3         3.4         4.2         5.4         6.8         8.4         10.3        11.9        12.7        12.3        10.4        7.9         5.4         4.2         4.0         4.2         4.7         5.1         5.1         5.0         4.5         3.6         2.7         1.9         1.3         0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6   0.8   0.8    1.0   1.1         1.2         1.2         1.3         1.3         1.4         1.5         1.5         1.5         1.6         1.6         1.6         1.6         1.7         1.8         2.0         2.2         2.7         3.4         4.2         5.1             7.0         8.8         10.9        12.3        12.9        9.2         9.1         6.7         5.1         4.8         5.7         7.1         8.8         11.0        13.0        14.1        11.0        11.0        7.7         4.9         3.4         3.5         4.4         5.6         7.0         8.8         11.1        13.0        14.0        11.1        11.3        8.4         5.9         4.5         4.4         4.8         5.3         5.8         5.9         5.7         5.0         3.9         2.7         1.8         1.2         0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3   1.5   1.6    1.7   2.0         2.2         2.4         2.5         2.4         2.5         2.7         2.8         2.8         2.9         2.9         3.0         3.1         3.1         3.1         3.2         3.3         3.8         4.4         5.1         5.7             6.8         9.7         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12.8        13.1        9.4         9.3         6.8         5.2         4.9         5.8         7.2         9.0         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11.2        13.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1   14.3        11.2        11.1        7.8         5.0         3.4         3.5         4.5         5.7         7.1         9.0         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13.2        14.4        11.3        11.5        8.6         6.2         4.8         4.8         5.4         6.2         7.0         7.6         7.3         6.1         4.5         2.9         1.7         1.2         0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.0   2.6   3.1    3.2   3.7         3.9         3.9         4.4         4.4         4.5         4.9         4.6         4.7         5.0         5.0         5.2         5.6         5.4         5.2         5.2         5.2         5.5         6.1         6.5         7.0             7.8         10.6        11.8        12.5        12.2        10.9        8.8         6.6         5.1         4.9         5.8         7.1         8.8         10.8        12.4        13.2        12.7        10.4        7.5         4.8         3.3         3.5         4.5         5.7         7.1         8.8         10.8        12.4        13.3        12.8        10.8        8.5         6.2         5.0         5.3         6.2         7.3         8.6         8.7         8.3         7.1         5.2         3.1         1.8         1.2         0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.7   3.6   4.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.2   5.8         5.4         5.4         6.2         7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3     7.1         7.2         6.4         6.7         7.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.6         7.9         7.6         8.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.9         8.0         7.1         7.1         8.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.4         8.6             8.2         11.7        12.1        11.7        10.9        9.5         7.8         6.0         4.8         4.8         5.6         6.8         8.3         10.0        11.4        11.8        11.3        9.6         7.1         4.5         3.2         3.5         4.4         5.6         6.8         8.4         10.1        11.5        11.9        11.4        10.0        8.2         6.2         5.3         5.7         6.9         8.6         9.9         10.6        10.2        8.4         5.9         3.4         1.9         1.3         0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.5   6.0   8.1   XL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             x7.2   9.3         9.4         9.6         10.5        XL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9.5         9.5         11.6        10.6        10.8        12.6   XL1  11.1        12.4        12.7        13.3  XL1   11.5        12.6        11.5        11.4        12.5  XL1   10.4        11.2            10.1        13.4        12.8        11.1        9.7         8.1         6.8         5.4         4.5         4.6         5.4         6.6         7.9         9.3         10.5        11.2        10.4        9.0         6.8         4.4         3.2         3.4         4.3         5.4         6.7         8.0         9.4         10.6        11.2        10.5        9.5         7.9         6.2         5.4         5.9         7.4         9.5         11.2        12.2        11.7        9.3         6.4         3.8         2.1         1.4         1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6                                                                    Donald P. Kiley, License #12432021-0331
                                                 # 9B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.5   6.1   8.3    8.5   10.1        9.8         9.1         10.9        11.0        10.9        11.9        10.4        11.1        13.1        12.7        13.0        12.9        13.4        13.2        13.6        11.7        11.3        12.9        11.5        11.4            9.7         13.5        13.3        10.2        8.6         6.9         5.6         4.6         4.2         4.5         5.3         6.4         7.8         9.0         10.2        10.8        10.5        8.9         6.6         4.4         3.2         3.3         4.3         5.4         6.6         7.9         9.1         10.3        10.9        10.6        9.4         7.7         6.1         5.3         5.9         7.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9.7           PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11.5        12.7        9.5         9.6         6.7         4.0         2.2         1.5         1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Expiration Date 05/31/24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.3        10.4        7.7         6.3         4.8         4.0         3.6         3.7         4.3         5.3         6.4         7.8         9.3         10.8        11.1        10.6        9.2         6.9         4.4         3.2         3.4         4.3         5.4         6.6         8.0         9.5         11.0        11.2        10.8        9.7         8.0         6.1         5.3         5.8         7.2         9.2         10.8        11.7        11.2        9.1         6.5         4.0         2.3         1.5         1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Architect Licensed in the following states:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.8         8.8         7.3         5.6         4.2         3.4         3.3         3.5         4.2         5.2         6.5         8.1         10.0        11.6        12.2        11.7        9.9         7.2         4.6         3.2         3.4         4.4         5.5         6.8         8.3         10.2        11.7        12.3        11.9        10.4        8.3         6.2         5.1         5.5         6.6         8.2         9.5         10.0        9.6         8.2         6.1         4.0         2.4         1.6         1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8.7         7.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.2         3.8         3.1         3.0         3.4         4.1         5.2         6.6         8.4         10.6        12.4        13.5        13.0        10.6        7.5         4.8         3.2         3.4         4.4         5.5         6.9         8.7         10.8        12.6        13.6        13.2        11.0        8.5         6.1         4.9         5.1         6.0         7.1         8.3         8.5         8.1         7.4         5.8         4.0         2.6         1.7         1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6




                                                                       # 10 B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9.7         9.4         6.7         5.0         3.5         2.8         2.7         3.2         4.0         5.0         6.5         8.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.6        12.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1   13.8        10.7        10.8        7.6         4.8         3.3         3.4         4.3         5.4         6.8         8.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12.8        14.0        10.7        11.2        8.4         5.9         4.6         4.7         5.4         6.2         6.9         7.4         7.3         6.6         5.4         4.0         2.8         1.9         1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6                                                                      OH, FL, TN, IL, IN, KY, MI, MN,
                                  # 8B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.6         8.6         5.8         4.5         3.4         2.7         2.6         3.1         3.9         4.9         6.2         8.0         10.1        11.8        12.8        12.5        10.1        7.2         4.6         3.2         3.4         4.2         5.2         6.6         8.2         10.3        12.0        13.0        12.7        10.5        7.8         5.5         4.3         4.3         4.9         5.6         6.2         6.5         6.6         6.2         5.4         4.3         3.2         2.2         1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AZ, NJ, WV, VA, PA, MD, DE, ID, SC, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.8         8.1         5.3         4.1         3.3         2.5         2.5         2.9         3.7         4.7         5.9         7.3         9.0         10.4        11.0        10.6        8.9         6.5         4.3         3.1         3.2         4.0         5.0         6.1         7.5         9.2         10.6        11.1        10.8        9.3         7.1         5.1         4.0         4.0         4.5         5.2         5.8         6.2         6.4         6.3         5.8         4.9         3.8         2.8         1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.3         8.1         5.3         4.1         3.0         2.4         2.4         2.8         3.6         4.5         5.4         6.6         7.8         9.1         9.2         8.7         7.5         5.7         3.9         3.0         3.1         3.7         4.6         5.7         6.8         8.0         9.3         9.4         9.0         7.9         6.3         4.6         3.7         3.7         4.3         5.0         5.6         6.2         6.6         6.9         6.7         6.1         4.8         3.4         2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.9         8.4         5.7         4.2         2.8         2.2         2.2         2.7         3.4         4.2         5.1         6.0         6.9         7.6         8.0         7.7         6.5         4.9         3.6         2.8         2.9         3.6         4.4         5.3         6.2         7.1         7.8         8.3         8.0         6.9         5.5         4.1         3.4         3.5         4.1         4.9         5.7         6.4         7.3         8.1         8.1         7.3         6.2         4.3         2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9                                                            The first Two (2) pages of this set of documents should contain a "red" seal with blue signature / date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            over the seal. The seal should be embossed in order to distinguish the documents as the "official"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.3         8.2         6.0         4.1         2.6         2.1         2.1         2.5         3.2         4.0         4.8         5.6         6.3         6.7         6.8         6.4         5.5         4.4         3.2         2.6         2.7         3.4         4.2         5.0         5.8         6.5         6.9         7.0         6.8         6.0         4.9         3.8         3.2         3.3         4.0         4.9         5.8         6.9         8.2         9.3         9.5         9.0         7.4         5.1         2.8

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            permit documents intended for permitting and construction. If the documents do not contain these
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.6         5.7         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.9         2.5         1.9         1.9         2.4         3.1         3.9         4.7         5.4         6.0         6.4         6.4         6.0         5.1         4.1         3.0         2.4         2.7         3.3         4.1         4.8         5.6         6.2         6.5         6.6         6.3         5.6         4.6         3.6         3.0         3.3         4.0         4.9         5.9         7.3         9.0         10.5        11.3        10.8        8.6         5.8         3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                appropriate markings no permits should be issued nor should inspections be granted. K&A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Architecture should be notified immediately of any such deficiencies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.4         9.1         5.8         3.8         2.4         1.8         1.8         2.3         3.0         3.8         4.6         5.4         6.0         6.4         6.4         6.1         5.2         4.1         3.0         2.5         2.6         3.3         4.0         4.8         5.6         6.2         6.6         6.7         6.4         5.7         4.7         3.6         3.0         3.2         4.0         4.9         5.9         7.4         9.3         11.0        12.1        9.0         9.2         6.1         3.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1                                                                                  1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.7         7.4         4.8         3.5         2.3         1.8         1.8         2.2         3.0         3.8         4.7         5.5         6.2         6.8         7.0         6.6         5.7         4.5         3.2         2.5         2.5         3.2         4.0         4.9         5.7         6.4         7.0         7.2         7.0         6.1         4.9         3.7         3.0         3.1         3.9         4.8         5.8         7.2         9.1         10.6        11.5        11.1        8.8         5.9         3.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1
                                         # 11B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7.6         7.0         4.3         3.2         2.3         1.7         1.7         2.2         2.9         3.8         4.8         5.8         6.8         7.7         8.4         8.0         6.9         5.0         3.4         2.5         2.6         3.3         4.1         5.0         5.9         6.9         7.9         8.7         8.3         7.3         5.6         4.0         3.1         3.2         3.9         4.7         5.6         6.8         8.2         9.3         9.8         9.3         7.6         5.3         2.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.5         6.9         4.2         3.1         2.2         1.6         1.6         2.1         3.0         3.9         5.0         6.2         7.6         9.0         9.3         9.0         7.7         5.7         3.6         2.6         2.6         3.3         4.2         5.2         6.4         7.8         9.3         9.6         9.3         8.1         6.3         4.3         3.3         3.4         3.9         4.6         5.3         6.2         7.1         8.0         7.9         7.3         6.2         4.5         2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.3         7.0         4.5         3.2         2.0         1.5         1.6         2.1         3.0         4.0         5.2         6.7         8.5         10.1        11.0        10.7        8.8         6.3         3.8         2.6         2.8         3.5         4.4         5.5         7.0         8.8         10.4        11.3        11.0        9.3         6.9         4.6         3.5         3.6         4.0         4.6         5.1         5.7         6.2         6.5         6.8         6.2         5.0         3.5         2.1




                           # 7B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8.6         8.2         5.0         3.2         1.9         1.4         1.5         2.1         3.0         4.0         5.3         6.9         9.1         10.9        12.2        9.2         9.5         6.6         4.0         2.7         2.8         3.6         4.4         5.6         7.2         9.4         11.2        12.5        9.6         10.0        7.3         5.0         3.7         3.8         4.2         4.6         5.1         5.4         5.6         5.5         5.2         4.6         3.7         2.7         1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.5         6.4         4.6         2.9         1.8         1.3         1.5         2.1         3.0         4.0         5.2         6.8         9.0         10.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1   12.1        9.1         9.4         6.5         4.0         2.7         2.8         3.5         4.4         5.5         7.1         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11.1        12.3        9.4         9.9         7.3         5.1         3.9         3.9         4.4         4.8         5.1         5.3         5.3         5.0         4.5         3.8         2.9         2.2         1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XL1                     2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.6         6.3         4.5         2.9         1.7         1.3         1.5         2.1         2.9         3.8         5.0         6.4         8.2         9.8         10.7        10.4        8.5         6.1         3.8         2.6         2.8         3.4         4.2         5.3         6.7         8.5         10.0        10.9        10.7        9.0         7.0         5.0         4.0         4.1         4.6         5.1         5.4         5.5         5.4         4.9         4.1         3.3         2.5         1.9         1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6.5         6.1         3.6         2.7         1.6         1.2         1.4         2.0         2.8         3.6         4.6         5.7         7.1         8.4         8.7         8.4         7.1         5.3         3.4         2.4         2.6         3.2         3.9         4.8         5.9         7.3         8.6         9.0         8.7         7.8         6.4         4.9         4.2         4.4         4.9         5.5         5.9         6.0         5.7         5.1         4.1         3.0         2.2         1.6         1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.6         4.7         2.7         2.0         1.4         1.2         1.4         1.9         2.6         3.4         4.2         5.1         6.0         6.9         7.4         6.8         6.0         4.5         3.1         2.3         2.4         3.0         3.6         4.4         5.3         6.2         7.1         7.6         7.2         6.7         5.8         4.8         4.3         4.7         5.4         6.2         6.8         7.0         6.6         5.6         4.2         2.9         1.9         1.4         1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.1         3.7         2.3         1.8         1.4         1.2         1.3         1.8         2.4         3.2         3.8         4.6         5.2         5.7         5.9         5.6         4.9         3.8         2.7         2.2         2.2         2.8         3.4         4.0         4.7         5.4         5.9         6.1         6.0         5.6         5.1         4.7         4.6         5.1         6.1         7.2         8.4         8.2         7.7         6.5         4.5         2.8         1.9         1.4         1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6                                                                                                         1/20/2022
                                                                                                                         # 17B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.4         3.1         2.4         1.7         1.3         1.1         1.3         1.7         2.3         3.0         3.6         4.2         4.7         5.0         5.1         4.8         4.1         3.3         2.5         2.1         2.2         2.6         3.2         3.8         4.4         4.9         5.2         5.2         5.2         5.0         4.8         4.6         4.9         5.7         6.9         8.7         9.5         9.8         9.0         7.3         5.0         3.0         1.9         1.4         1.0




            MINUTEMAN DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1               PL1
                                           # 12B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.5         2.5         2.2         1.6         1.2         1.1         1.3         1.7         2.3         2.9         3.5         4.1         4.5         4.7         4.6         4.3         3.7         3.0         2.3         2.0         2.0         2.5         3.1         3.7         4.2         4.6         4.8         4.7         4.7         4.6         4.6         4.7         5.1         6.2         8.0         10.3        11.7        12.4        11.1        8.4         5.6         3.3         2.0         1.5         1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.1         3.0         2.5         1.8         1.3         1.1         1.3         1.7         2.3         3.0         3.7         4.3         4.8         5.0         5.0         4.7         4.1         3.2         2.4         2.0         2.1         2.6         3.2         3.9         4.4         4.9         5.1         5.2         5.1         5.0         4.8         4.7         5.0         5.9         7.3         9.2         10.4        10.8        9.8         7.8         5.4         3.3         2.1         1.5         1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.1         3.7         2.4         1.8         1.4         1.2         1.3         1.8         2.5         3.2         3.9         4.6         5.2         5.6         5.7         5.4         4.7         3.7         2.6         2.2         2.2         2.7         3.4         4.1         4.7         5.3         5.7         5.8         5.8         5.5         5.1         4.7         4.7         5.3         6.5         7.9         8.8         8.7         8.3         7.0         5.1         3.3         2.2         1.5         1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.6         4.6         2.8         2.1         1.5         1.2         1.4         1.9         2.6         3.4         4.2         5.0         5.9         6.6         7.0         6.8         5.8         4.3         3.0         2.2         2.4         3.0         3.6         4.4         5.2         6.0         6.7         7.2         7.3         6.5         5.6         4.8         4.4         4.9         5.8         6.7         7.7         8.1         7.5         6.3         4.8         3.4         2.3         1.6         1.1



                                    # 6B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.3         6.0         3.6         2.7         1.7         1.3         1.4         2.0         2.8         3.7         4.6         5.6         6.8         8.1         8.3         7.9         6.9         5.2         3.3         2.4         2.6         3.3         4.0         4.8         5.8         7.0         8.3         8.5         8.3         7.6         6.3         4.8         4.2         4.5         5.2         5.9         6.4         6.6         6.4         5.8         4.7         3.6         2.6         1.8         1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.4         7.7         4.8         3.0         1.8         1.4         1.5         2.1         3.0         3.9         5.0         6.4         8.0         9.5         10.1        9.8         8.2         5.9         3.7         2.5         2.7         3.5         4.3         5.3         6.6         8.2         9.6         10.3        10.2        8.9         6.9         4.9         4.0         4.2         4.8         5.4         5.9         6.1         6.1         5.6         4.9         4.0         3.1         2.2         1.4



                                                                                                                        # 16B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.2         7.0         5.1         3.2         1.9         1.4         1.6         2.2         3.1         4.1         5.4         7.0         9.1         10.8        11.9        11.6        9.4         6.5         4.0         2.7         2.9         3.6         4.5         5.7         7.3         9.3         11.0        12.2        12.0        9.9         7.4         5.1         3.9         4.1         4.6         5.2         5.7         5.9         6.1         5.9         5.5         4.7         3.7         2.7         1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.8         8.9         5.6         3.4         2.0         1.5         1.6         2.2         3.2         4.3         5.6         7.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.5         11.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1   12.7        9.7         9.9         6.8         4.2         2.8         2.9         3.7         4.6         5.9         7.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11.7        13.0        10.1        10.4        7.6         5.2         3.9         4.0         4.5         5.1         5.6         6.1         6.5         6.7         6.5         5.9         4.7         3.4         2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9

                                                                                                                                         # 18B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9.2         8.4         4.8         3.5         2.2         1.6         1.7         2.3         3.2         4.3         5.6         7.3         9.3         11.1        12.1        11.8        9.5         6.7         4.2         2.8         2.9         3.7         4.7         5.9         7.5         9.6         11.3        12.4        12.2        10.0        7.4         5.0         3.8         3.8         4.4         5.1         5.8         6.5         7.2         8.0         8.0         7.2         6.1         4.3         2.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.1         8.1         4.5         3.3         2.2         1.6         1.7         2.3         3.2         4.3         5.5         6.9         8.6         10.1        10.6        10.2        8.6         6.2         4.0         2.7         2.8         3.6         4.6         5.7         7.1         8.8         10.2        10.9        10.5        9.0         6.8         4.8         3.6         3.6         4.4         5.1         6.0         7.0         8.2         9.3         9.5         9.0         7.3         5.1         2.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.3         8.5         4.9         3.5         2.2         1.6         1.8         2.4         3.3         4.2         5.3         6.6         7.8         9.1         9.2         8.7         7.5         5.6         3.7         2.7         2.7         3.5         4.5         5.5         6.7         7.9         9.2         9.3         9.0         7.9         6.2         4.5         3.5         3.6         4.4         5.3         6.3         7.6         9.3         10.6        11.3        10.8        8.7         5.9         3.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.6         8.6         5.6         3.4         2.1         1.6         1.8         2.4         3.3         4.3         5.3         6.3         7.3         8.0         8.4         8.0         6.7         5.1         3.5         2.5         2.7         3.5         4.4         5.3         6.3         7.2         8.0         8.5         8.3         7.2         5.7         4.2         3.3         3.5         4.4         5.3         6.4         7.8         9.7         11.3        12.3        9.1         9.3         6.2         3.4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1                 PL1
                                                                                                 # 14B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.9         5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.1         1.9         1.5         1.8         2.4         3.3         4.3         5.3         6.3         7.1         7.7         7.8         7.4         6.3         4.9         3.4         2.6         2.7         3.4         4.3         5.3         6.2         7.0         7.6         7.8         7.5         6.7         5.5         4.1         3.5         3.6         4.4         5.4         6.5         7.8         9.7         11.0        11.9        11.3        8.9         6.0         3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.4         7.8         4.8         3.1         1.9         1.5         1.8         2.5         3.4         4.4         5.4         6.4         7.3         7.9         8.0         7.6         6.5         5.0         3.4         2.6         2.7         3.5         4.4         5.3         6.2         7.1         7.7         8.0         7.7         6.8         5.6         4.2         3.5         3.7         4.5         5.3         6.4         7.5         8.9         10.0        10.3        9.6         7.8         5.4         3.0


                                                 # 13B                                                                  # 15B
                              # 5B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.2         5.9         3.6         2.8         1.8         1.5         1.8         2.6         3.6         4.6         5.7         6.8         7.8         8.8         9.3         9.0         7.5         5.6         3.7         2.7         2.8         3.6         4.5         5.4         6.5         7.5         8.4         9.1         8.9         7.7         6.0         4.5         3.6         3.9         4.7         5.4         6.3         7.1         8.0         8.8         8.5         7.8         6.4         4.6         2.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.7         4.5         2.9         2.2         1.7         1.9         2.1         2.8         3.8         4.9         6.1         7.4         8.8         10.3        10.4        9.9         8.5         6.4         4.0         2.9         2.9         3.7         4.6         5.7         7.0         8.3         9.8         9.9         9.6         8.5         6.8         4.9         4.0         4.1         4.9         5.6         6.3         6.9         7.3         7.6         7.6         6.7         5.3         3.7         2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NO.                             DESCRIPTION                                            DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9.8         11.0        8.2         8.0         7.1             4.9         7.9         6.6         4.2         3.1         2.5         2.1         2.2         2.9         3.9         5.2         6.5         8.1         9.9         11.6        12.2        11.8        9.8         7.1         4.4         3.1         3.1         3.8         4.8         6.1         7.5         9.3         10.8        11.5        11.2        9.6         7.4         5.3         4.3         4.5         5.2         5.9         6.3         7.0         7.2         7.0         6.4         5.3         4.1         3.0         1.9


                                                                                # 4B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                   # 3B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13.1  PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.0        7.8         5.7         3.7         2.8             2.2         2.9         2.7         2.4         2.1         1.9         1.9         2.3         3.2         4.4         5.6         7.0         8.8         10.8        12.5        13.5        13.0        10.6        7.6         4.8         3.2         3.2         4.0         4.9         6.1         7.7         9.7         11.2        12.2        11.9        10.0        7.9         6.0         5.2         5.7         6.7         8.1         9.5         9.8         9.6         8.6         6.7         4.5         3.1         2.1         1.5




                                                                                                                 # 2A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.0         4.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.9         2.0             1.7         2.3         2.2         2.1         1.9         1.8         1.8         2.3         3.3         4.4         5.6         6.9         8.4         10.1        11.6        12.1        11.5        9.7         7.2         4.6         3.1         3.1         3.8         4.7         5.8         7.1         8.6         9.9         10.4        10.1        8.9         7.3         5.9         5.3         6.0         7.4         9.3         10.8        11.5        11.2        9.7         7.3         4.8         3.1         2.1         1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.4         6.6         4.6         2.6         1.7             1.5         1.8         1.9         1.8         1.8         1.8         1.9         2.5         3.4         4.4         5.6         6.7         8.1         9.4         10.8        11.1        10.5        9.1         6.9         4.5         3.1         3.0         3.7         4.5         5.4         6.5         7.6         8.7         8.9         8.4         7.7         6.7         5.6         5.4         6.2         7.9         10.3        12.1        13.3        12.9        10.6        7.8         5.1         3.2         2.2         1.5

                                                                                                                                  # 1B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.6         5.0         3.0         2.2         1.6             1.4         1.6         1.7         1.7         1.8         1.9         2.1         2.6         3.5         4.5         5.6         6.7         8.0         9.2         10.3        10.8        10.5        8.9         6.6         4.4         3.0         2.9         3.6         4.3         5.2         6.0         6.8         7.4         7.6         7.4         6.7         5.9         5.4         5.3         6.2         8.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12.6        14.0        10.9        11.0        8.0         5.3         3.3         2.3         1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.9         4.0         2.4         1.9         1.5             1.4         1.6         1.8         1.9         2.0         2.0         2.3         2.8         3.6         4.7         5.7         6.8         8.1         9.5         10.8        11.2        10.5        9.2         6.9         4.4         3.0         2.9         3.5         4.2         5.0         5.7         6.4         6.8         6.8         6.5         6.0         5.5         5.1         5.1         6.1         7.9         10.2        12.0        13.3        12.8        10.7        8.0         5.3         3.4         2.3         1.6


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NO SUBCONTRACTOR SHOULD BE PROVIDED WITH A
                                                                # 3A                                      # 2B                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         3.2         2.8         2.1         1.6         1.5             1.6         1.8         2.0         2.2         2.3         2.3         2.5         3.0         3.8         4.8         5.9         7.0         8.4         10.1        11.6        12.1        11.6        9.8         7.2         4.5         2.9         2.9         3.5         4.2         4.9         5.7         6.3         6.7         6.7         6.5         5.9         5.4         4.9         4.9         5.7         7.2         9.1         10.7        11.6        11.3        9.9         7.6         5.3         3.5         2.4         1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8



                                                                                                                                                                                                   # 18A                                                                                                        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         2.0         1.9         1.6         1.3         1.4             1.8         2.1         2.4         2.6         2.7         2.7         2.9         3.3         4.0         5.0         6.0         7.2         8.8         10.8        12.6        13.5        13.1        10.7        7.6         4.7         3.0         2.9         3.5         4.2         5.0         5.8         6.4         6.9         7.0         6.8         6.3         5.5         4.7         4.6         5.2         6.5         8.0         9.5         9.9         9.8         9.0         7.5         5.5         3.9         2.7         1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARTIAL SET OF PLANS FOR EITHER BIDDING OR
                                                                                                                                                                                           # 15A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES WITHOUT FIRST TAKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         1.3         1.4         1.3         1.3         1.5             2.1         2.6         3.0         3.2         3.3         3.3         3.3         3.6         4.3         5.1         6.0         7.2         8.8         11.0        13.0        14.2        11.1        11.1        7.8         4.8         3.1         2.9         3.5         4.2         5.1         6.0         6.9         7.8         8.4         8.2         7.2         5.9         4.8         4.2         4.7         5.8         7.0         8.1         9.1         9.2         8.5         7.4         6.0         4.4         3.1         1.9



                                                                                                                                                                        # 12A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AMPLE TIME TO REVIEW A COMPLETE SET IN ORDER TO
                                                                                   # 6A                                                          # 1A                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.9         1.0         1.0         1.2         1.7             2.5         3.3         3.9         4.2         4.1         3.9         3.8         4.0         4.5         5.2         6.0         7.1         8.7         10.8        12.6        13.6        13.2        10.6        7.5         4.6         3.0         2.9         3.4         4.3         5.3         6.4         7.7         9.0         9.2         8.9         8.0         6.4         4.7         4.1         4.4         5.3         6.4         7.2         8.0         8.4         8.5         8.1         7.1         5.5         3.7         2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8


                                            # 4A                                                                                                                                                           # 17A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DETERMINE FOR THEMSELVES THE INFORMATION AND
                                                                                                                 # 7A      # 9A                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.6         0.6         0.7         1.1         2.0             3.2         4.5         5.5         5.8         5.3         4.8         4.4         4.4         4.7         5.3         6.0         6.9         8.1         9.8         11.3        11.9        11.5        9.5         6.9         4.3         2.9         2.8         3.4         4.3         5.4         6.8         8.6         10.1        10.8        10.5        9.0         6.8         4.8         3.9         4.2         5.0         5.9         6.8         7.7         8.5         9.3         9.0         8.0         6.6         4.7         2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0




                                                                                                                                                        # 10A                                                                                                                                                   0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.4         0.5         0.6         1.1         2.2             4.1         5.6         6.6         7.0         6.9         5.9         5.1         4.8         5.0         5.4         5.9         6.5         7.5         8.7         10.0        10.1        9.6         8.2         6.1         3.9         2.7         2.6         3.4         4.3         5.5         7.1         9.2         11.0        12.2        11.9        9.7         7.1         4.8         3.7         4.0         4.8         5.7         6.5         7.8         9.1         10.2        10.4        9.7         7.8         5.4         2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DOCUMENTATION THEY WISH TO HAVE COPIED. THERE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ARE MANY CROSS-REFERENCES IN A SET OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.4         0.5         0.6         1.2         2.6             4.8         7.0         8.5         8.9         8.3         7.1         5.9         5.3         5.2         5.4         5.8         6.2         6.9         7.8         8.7         9.2         8.7         7.3         5.4         3.6         2.5         2.5         3.3         4.1         5.3         6.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.1         11.0        12.3        9.4         9.7         7.0         4.6         3.5         3.7         4.5         5.4         6.5         7.9         9.6         11.0        11.8        11.2        8.8         5.9         3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. ANY DISCREPANCIES
                                                                                                                        # 9A                                                                                       # 16A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.4         0.5         0.7         1.2         2.8             5.4         8.1         10.3        10.7        9.6         8.1         6.4         5.5         5.3         5.4         5.7         6.0         6.6         7.3         7.9         8.0         7.6         6.5         5.0         3.4         2.4         2.5         3.1         3.9         5.0         6.5         8.3         10.0        11.0        10.7        8.8         6.4         4.2         3.1         3.4         4.2         5.0         6.1         7.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9.5         11.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL1  12.2        9.1         9.2         6.1         3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE DESIGN
                                                                                          # 8A
                                                                                                                                                                           # 13A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.5         0.7         1.3         3.0             5.6         8.5         8.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11.3        10.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.4         6.5         5.6         5.3         5.3         5.5         5.8         6.4         7.1         7.7         7.8         7.4         6.4         4.9         3.3         2.4         2.3         2.8         3.6         4.5         5.6         7.1         8.3         8.9         8.6         7.3         5.5         3.7         2.8         3.0         3.8         4.7         5.7         7.1         8.8         10.3        11.2        10.8        8.6         5.8         3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.1



                                                         # 5A                                                                                                   # 11A              # 14A                                                                                                                        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.5         0.6         1.2         2.8             5.3         8.0         10.1        10.5        9.5         8.0         6.4         5.5         5.2         5.3         5.5         5.8         6.5         7.3         8.1         8.5         8.3         6.9         5.1         3.4         2.2         2.2         2.6         3.2         3.9         4.7         5.7         6.8         7.0         6.6         5.9         4.6         3.1         2.5         2.7         3.4         4.2         5.1         6.2         7.6         8.8         9.3         8.8         7.3         5.1         2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROFESSIONAL FOR FORMAL CLARIFICATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.6         1.0         2.5             4.7         6.9         8.3         8.7         8.2         7.0         5.7         5.1         4.9         5.1         5.4         5.9         6.7         7.9         9.2         9.4         8.9         7.7         5.8         3.5         2.3         2.0         2.4         2.8         3.4         4.0         4.6         5.1         5.4         5.3         4.5         3.5         2.6         2.1         2.3         2.9         3.6         4.3         5.2         6.2         7.2         7.3         6.8         5.8         4.3         2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SUBCONTRACTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR BIDDING AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.5         0.9         2.1             4.0         5.7         6.5         7.0         6.8         5.7         5.0         4.6         4.6         4.9         5.3         6.0         7.1         8.6         10.2        10.7        10.4        8.7         6.2         3.8         2.3         1.9         2.1         2.5         2.9         3.3         3.7         4.0         4.1         3.9         3.4         2.8         2.2         1.9         2.0         2.5         3.1         3.7         4.3         4.9         5.5         5.8         5.6         4.6         3.3         2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE COMPLETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.8         1.7             3.1         4.4         5.3         5.5         5.2         4.7         4.2         4.1         4.3         4.7         5.2         6.0         7.4         9.3         11.1        12.1        11.8        9.5         6.6         3.9         2.2         1.9         1.9         2.2         2.5         2.8         3.1         3.2         3.2         3.1         2.7         2.3         1.8         1.6         1.8         2.1         2.6         3.1         3.5         4.0         4.2         4.3         4.0         3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.3         1.4   0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS, NOT SPECIFIC SHEETS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ONLY HAVING A PARTIAL SET OF DRAWINGS SHALL NOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.7         1.4             2.4         3.3         3.9         4.1         4.1         3.8         3.6         3.6         3.9         4.4         4.9         5.8         7.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.3         11.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1   12.5        9.5         9.7         6.6         3.9         2.2         1.8         1.8         2.0         2.2         2.4         2.5         2.7         2.6         2.5         2.2         1.8         1.5         1.4         1.5         1.8         2.2         2.6         2.9         3.2         3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.0         2.5         1.8         1.1   0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.4         0.6         1.2             1.9         2.6         3.1         3.3         3.3         3.2         3.1         3.2         3.6         4.1         4.6         5.5         6.8         8.6         10.3        11.4        11.1        8.9         6.2         3.7         2.1         1.6         1.6         1.7         1.9         2.0         2.1         2.2         2.1         2.0         1.8         1.5         1.3         1.2         1.2         1.5         1.9         2.1         2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.8         2.6         2.4         2.0         1.5         0.9   0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BE ACCEPTED AS AN EXCUSE FOR DELAYS OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.6         1.0             1.5         2.0         2.4         2.6         2.7         2.7         2.7         2.8         3.2         3.7         4.2         4.9         6.0         7.4         8.7         9.3         9.0         7.5         5.4         3.3         1.8         1.4         1.4         1.5         1.6         1.7         1.8         1.8         1.7         1.7         1.5         1.3         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.3         1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.2         2.3         2.1         1.9         1.6         1.2         0.8   0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INCOMPLETE WORK.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.6         1.7         1.8         1.8         1.7         1.6         1.3         1.0         0.7   0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.6         0.9             1.3         1.7         2.0         2.2         2.3         2.2         2.3         2.5         2.8         3.3         3.7         4.3         5.1         6.0         7.1         7.3         6.9         6.0         4.5         2.7         1.6         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.3         1.4         1.5         1.5         1.4         1.4         1.2         1.1         1.0         1.0         1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0         1.1         1.3         1.4         1.5         1.5         1.4         1.3         1.0         0.8         0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.6         0.9             1.1         1.5         1.7         1.8         1.9         1.9         2.0         2.2         2.5         2.8         3.2         3.7         4.2         4.8         5.4         5.8         5.6         4.7         3.5         2.3         1.3         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.1         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.1         1.0         0.9         0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7         0.8         0.9         1.0         1.1         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.1         1.1         0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.8             1.1         1.3         1.5         1.5         1.6         1.6         1.7         1.9         2.1         2.4         2.8         3.1         3.5         3.9         4.1         4.2         4.0         3.4         2.7         1.8         1.2         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.9         0.9         1.0         0.9         0.9         0.9         0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT NAME:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.9         1.0         0.9         0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.4         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.8         0.9             1.0         1.1         1.3         1.3         1.3         1.3         1.4         1.6         1.8         2.1         2.4         2.6         2.9         3.1         3.3         3.3         3.1         2.7         2.1         1.5         1.0         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.4         0.5         0.7         0.8         0.9         0.9         0.9         0.9             1.0         1.0         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.2         1.3         1.6         1.8         2.0         2.2         2.4         2.6         2.7         2.6         2.4         2.1         1.7         1.2         0.8         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.6         0.8         0.9         1.0         1.1         1.1         1.0         1.0             1.0         1.0         1.0         0.9         0.9         1.0         1.0         1.2         1.4         1.6         1.7         1.9         2.0         2.1         2.2         2.1         2.0         1.7         1.4         1.0         0.7         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.6         1.0         1.2         1.3         1.4         1.4         1.3         1.2         1.1             1.1         1.0         0.9         0.9         0.8         0.9         0.9         1.0         1.1         1.3         1.5         1.6         1.7         1.8         1.8         1.7         1.6         1.4         1.1         0.9         0.6         0.4         0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.8         1.1         1.5         1.7         1.8         1.8         1.7         1.6         1.4         1.3             1.1         1.0         0.9         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.9         1.0         1.1         1.2         1.3         1.4         1.5         1.5         1.4         1.3         1.1         0.9         0.7         0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.8         1.4         1.9         2.3         2.4         2.3         2.2         2.0         1.8         1.6         1.4             1.2         1.0         0.9         0.8         0.7         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.9         1.0         1.1         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.1         1.1         0.9         0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.7         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3         0.4         0.5         0.6         0.9         1.6         2.5         3.2         3.3         3.2         3.0         2.7         2.4         2.0         1.7         1.4             1.2         1.0         0.8         0.7         0.6         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.9         0.9         0.9         0.9         0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.7         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4         0.5         0.6         0.9         1.8         3.0         4.2         4.9         5.0         4.3         3.7         3.2         2.7         2.2         1.9         1.5             1.2         1.0         0.8         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.6         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4         0.6         0.8         1.7         3.1         4.9         6.3         6.6         6.2         6.0         4.5         3.6         2.9         2.4         1.9         1.5             1.2         0.9         0.7         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4         0.6         1.3         2.7         4.9         6.9         8.6         8.8         7.9         6.8         5.2         4.0         3.1         2.4         1.9         1.5             1.1         0.8         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5         1.0         2.1         4.1         6.4         8.9         8.0         10.6        9.1         7.5         5.6         4.1         3.2         2.4         1.9         1.4             1.0         0.7         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.7         1.5         2.9         5.0         7.4         9.8         11.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PL1  10.9        9.4         7.5         5.5         4.1         3.1         2.3         1.7         1.2             0.8         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.1         0.2         0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.0         1.9         3.4         5.4         7.2         9.0         10.1        9.8

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.7         6.8         5.1         3.8         2.8         2.1         1.5         1.0             0.6         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.1         0.2         0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.3         2.2         3.5         5.2         6.4         7.5         8.3         8.2         7.1         5.6         4.4         3.3         2.5         1.8         1.2         0.7             0.4         0.2         0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.1         0.3         0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.4             0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.5         2.3         3.3         4.3         5.5         6.4         6.5         6.2         5.5         4.5         3.6         2.8         2.1         1.4         0.8         0.5             0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.2         0.4         0.7                                                                                                                                                                                 0.9         0.5         0.2             0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.5         2.2         3.0         3.6         4.2         4.7         4.8         4.6         4.2         3.6         2.9         2.2         1.5         1.0         0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2         0.3         0.5         0.8                                                                                                                                                         1.5         0.9         0.5         0.2         0.1             0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.5         2.1         2.5         3.1         3.5         3.7         3.7         3.5         3.2         2.7         2.2         1.6         1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2         0.3         0.5         0.8                                                                                                                                 2.0         1.5         1.0         0.5         0.2         0.1         0.1             0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.5         1.9         2.2         2.6         2.8         2.9         2.9         2.7         2.4         2.1         1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BOONDOCKS FUN CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2         0.3         0.5         0.8                                                                                                                     1.8         1.4         1.0         0.6         0.3         0.1         0.1         0.1             0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.3         1.6         1.9         2.1         2.3         2.3         2.3         2.1         1.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2         0.3         0.5         0.8                                                                                             1.8         1.6         1.3         1.0         0.6         0.3         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0             0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.1         1.4         1.6         1.7         1.8         1.8         1.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2         0.3         0.5         0.6                                                                     1.5         1.4         1.3         1.1         0.9         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0             0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9         1.1         1.3         1.4         1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0         0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                75 Southfork Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Draper, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAWN BY:                          DATE              PROJECT NO.

                           E1.1 - SITE PHOTOMETRICS EXISTING
                           SCALE: 1"=30'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHECKED BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DATE               Q.A. BY:                            DATE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PHOTOMETRICS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXISTING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ISSUE:                              DRAWING NO.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SCALE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               As Noted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DATE:
If this sheet is not 30"
by 42" it is a reduced                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 K&A Architecture Inc. All rights reserved. No part of
print, scale accordingly                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           this document may be reproduced or utilized in any form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   without prior written authorization of K&A Architecture Inc.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0                                       0.0                                                   0.1                                       0.1                                                   0.1                                       0.1                                                    0.1                                       0.1                                                    0.1                                       0.2                                                    0.2                                       0.3                                                     0.3                                       0.4                                                     0.5                                       0.5                                                     0.5                                        0.5                                                        0.4                                         0.3                                                                                   0.3                                                                                                    0.3                                                                                                                                                  0.3                                                                                                      0.3                                                                                                                                                 0.3                                                                                                    0.3                                                                                                      0.4               0.5                 0.6                 0.6         0.6           0.6         0.5          0.4         0.4         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.4         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.2         0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         architecture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2                                       0.2                                                   0.3                                       0.4                                                   0.6                                       0.8                                                    1.0                                       1.2                                                    1.5                                       2.0                                                    2.7                                       3.5                                                     4.6                                       5.5                                                     6.2                                       6.5                                                     6.3                                        5.7                                                        4.9                                         4.1                                                                                   3.5                                                                                                    3.1                                                                                                                                                  3.0                                                                                                      3.1                                                                                                                                                 3.4                                                                                                    4.0                                                                                                      4.8               5.7                 6.4                 6.8         6.8           6.3         5.5          4.8         4.0         3.5         3.3         3.3         3.5         4.0         4.7         5.6         6.3         6.9         7.0         6.6         5.9         5.1         4.3         3.7         3.4         3.2         3.4         3.7         4.3         5.2         5.9         6.6         6.8         6.6         5.9         4.9         4.0         3.0         2.4         1.9         1.6         1.3         1.1         0.9         0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2                                       0.3                                                   0.4                                       0.6                                                   0.8                                       1.1                                                    1.3                                       1.7                                                    2.0                                       2.7                                                    3.5                                       4.7                                                     6.0                                       7.5                                                     8.9                                       4.9                                                     9.1                                        7.8                                                        6.5                                         5.6                                                                                   4.5                                                                                                    4.1                                                                                                                                                  3.9                                                                                                      4.0                                                                                                                                                 4.5                                                                                                    5.2                                                                                                      6.6               7.6                 9.0                 7.5         9.8           8.7         7.3          6.3         5.2         4.6         4.3         4.3         4.6         5.2         6.4         7.4         8.7         9.8         7.8         9.3         8.0         6.7         5.7         4.8         4.4         4.2         4.4         4.9         5.7         6.8         8.0         9.2         7.6         9.5         8.1         6.5         5.4         3.9         3.1         2.5         2.0         1.7         1.4         1.1         0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2                                       0.3                                                   0.5                                       0.7                                                   0.9                                       1.2                                                    1.5                                       1.9                                                    2.4                                       3.1                                                    4.0                                       5.5                                                     6.8                                       8.7                                                     10.6                                      11.6                                                    10.9                                       9.2                                                        7.4                                         6.6                                                                                   5.2                                                                                                    4.7                                                                                                                                                  4.5                                                                                                      4.6                                                                                                                                                 5.1                                                                                                    5.9                                                                                                      7.4               8.7                 10.5                11.8        11.8          10.3        8.5          7.2         6.0         5.3         5.0         5.0         5.4         6.0         7.5         8.4         10.2        11.7        12.2        11.2        9.4         7.7         6.7         5.6         5.1         5.0         5.2         5.6         6.6         7.7         9.2         11.0        11.9        11.4        9.6         7.6         6.3         4.6         3.6         2.9         2.4         2.0         1.6         1.3         1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PL1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PL1                                                                                                                                                                                    PL1                                                                                                                                                                           PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Project No. 21-314
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                                       0.4                                                   0.5                                       0.7                                                   1.0                                       1.3                                                    1.6                                       2.1                                                    2.5                                       3.3                                                    4.1                                       5.4                                                     7.1                                       8.7                                                     10.5                                      11.3                                                    10.8                                       9.2                                                        7.7                                         6.6                                                                                   5.4                                                                                                    5.0                                                                                                                                                  4.8                                                                                                      4.9                                                                                                                                                 5.4                                                                                                    6.1                                                                                                      7.8               8.8                 10.5                11.7        11.6          10.3        8.7          7.7         6.3         5.7         5.5         5.5         5.9         6.4         7.6         8.8         10.3        11.7        12.1        11.2        9.5         8.2         6.9         6.0         5.6         5.5         5.6         6.0         6.8         8.3         9.4         10.9        11.8        11.3        9.7         7.8         6.5         4.9         4.0         3.3         2.7         2.3         1.9         1.5         1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                                       0.4                                                   0.6                                       0.8                                                   1.0                                       1.3                                                    1.7                                       2.1                                                    2.5                                       3.1                                                    3.9                                       5.0                                                     6.5                                       8.0                                                     9.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1            9.8                                                     9.5                                        8.5                                                        7.3                                         6.1                                                                                   5.3                                                                                                    4.9                                                                                                                                                  4.8                                                                                                      4.9                                                                                                                                                 5.3                                                                                                    5.9                                                                                                      6.9               8.3                 9.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10.3        10.2          9.4         8.3          7.0         6.2         5.8         5.6         5.7         6.0         6.5         7.3         8.6         9.7         10.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1   10.7        10.1        9.0         7.7         6.7         6.0         5.7         5.7         5.8         6.2         6.8         7.7         8.9         9.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.4        10.1        8.9         7.5         6.0         4.9         4.1         3.4         3.0         2.5         2.1         1.6         1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                                       0.4                                                   0.6                                       0.8                                                   1.0                                       1.3                                                    1.6                                       1.9                                                    2.4                                       3.0                                                    3.5                                       4.3                                                     5.3                                       6.4                                                     7.4                                       7.7                                                     7.7                                        6.9                                                        6.0                                         5.3                                                                                   4.8                                                                                                    4.6                                                                                                                                                  4.5                                                                                                      4.6                                                                                                                                                 4.9                                                                                                    5.3                                                                                                      5.9               6.8                 7.7                 8.2         8.2           7.7         6.9          6.2         5.8         5.6         5.5         5.6         5.9         6.2         6.7         7.5         8.2         8.8         8.8         8.4         7.6         6.7         6.1         5.8         5.6         5.7         5.8         6.0         6.3         6.8         7.5         8.2         8.4         8.2         7.4         6.4         5.4         4.6         4.1         3.6         3.1         2.7         2.2         1.7         1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                                       0.4                                                   0.5                                       0.7                                                   0.9                                       1.1                                                    1.4                                       1.8                                                    2.1                                       2.5                                                    3.0                                       3.6                                                     4.2                                       4.9                                                     5.5                                       5.7                                                     5.7                                        5.4                                                        4.9                                         4.5                                                                                   4.2                                                                                                    4.1                                                                                                                                                  4.0                                                                                                      4.1                                                                                                                                                 4.3                                                                                                    4.5                                                                                                      4.9               5.4                 6.0                 6.2         6.3           6.1         5.7          5.4         5.2         5.2         5.3         5.4         5.7         5.9         6.2         6.6         6.9         7.0         6.9         6.7         6.2         5.8         5.6         5.4         5.4         5.5         5.6         5.7         5.9         6.0         6.3         6.5         6.5         6.4         5.9         5.4         4.9         4.4         4.0         3.6         3.2         2.8         2.3         1.8         1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kiley & Associates Architecture, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                                       0.4                                                   0.5                                       0.6                                                   0.8                                       1.0                                                    1.2                                       1.5                                                    1.8                                       2.1                                                    2.5                                       2.9                                                     3.3                                       3.7                                                     4.1                                       4.2                                                     4.3                                        4.1                                                        3.9                                         3.7                                                                                   3.5                                                                                                    3.4                                                                                                                                                  3.4                                                                                                      3.5                                                                                                                                                 3.6                                                                                                    3.8                                                                                                      4.0               4.3                 4.6                 4.7         4.8           4.8         4.6          4.6         4.6         4.7         4.9         5.1         5.4         5.6         5.7         5.8         5.8         5.7         5.5         5.4         5.1         5.0         5.0         5.1         5.1         5.2         5.4         5.4         5.4         5.3         5.3         5.2         5.1         5.0         4.8         4.6         4.4         4.1         3.9         3.7         3.3         3.0         2.4         1.9         1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2                                       0.3                                                   0.4                                       0.6                                                   0.7                                       0.8                                                    1.0                                       1.2                                                    1.4                                       1.7                                                    1.9                                       2.2                                                     2.5                                       2.8                                                     3.0                                       3.1                                                     3.2                                        3.1                                                        3.0                                         2.9                                                                                   2.8                                                                                                    2.7                                                                                                                                                  2.8                                                                                                      2.8                                                                                                                                                 2.9                                                                                                    3.0                                                                                                      3.1               3.3                 3.5                 3.6         3.6           3.7         3.8          3.9         4.0         4.3         4.6         4.8         5.0         5.2         5.3         5.3         5.1         4.8         4.5         4.3         4.3         4.4         4.5         4.6         4.9         5.0         5.1         5.1         5.0         4.8         4.5         4.3         4.1         4.0         4.0         4.0         4.0         4.0         3.9         3.7         3.5         3.1         2.6         2.0         1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2                                       0.3                                                   0.4                                       0.5                                                   0.7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2                 0.8                                                    0.8                                       0.9                                                    1.1                                       1.2                                                    1.5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2                                 1.7                                                     1.8                                       1.9                                                     2.1                                       2.2                                                     2.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2                                    2.4                                                        2.2                                         2.1                                                                                   2.1                                                                                                    2.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.3                                                                                                      2.2                                                                                                                                                 2.1                                                                                                    2.2                                                                                                      2.3               2.4                 2.5                 2.6         2.7           2.8         2.9          3.2         3.5         3.8         4.2         4.6         4.8         5.0         5.0         4.9         4.6         4.1         3.7         3.5         3.5         3.8         4.0         4.3         4.6         4.8         4.9         4.9         4.7         4.3         3.9         3.5         3.2         3.2         3.4         3.6         3.7         3.9         3.9         3.9         3.7         3.3         2.8         2.1         1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2                                       0.2                                                   0.3                                       0.8                                                   1.7                                       1.8                                                    1.2                                       0.7                                                    0.7                                       1.3                                                    2.2                                       2.3                                                     1.6                                       1.2                                                     1.3                                       1.9                                                     2.7                                        2.7                                                        1.9                                         1.4                                                                                   1.4                                                                                                    2.1                                                                                                                                                  2.8                                                                                                      2.6                                                                                                                                                 1.8                                                                                                    1.4                                                                                                      1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PEDESTRIAN-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5                 1.6                 1.7         1.7           1.9         2.1          2.5         3.0         3.5         3.9         4.4         4.8         5.0         5.0         4.8         4.3         3.7         3.0         2.8         2.9         3.2         3.6         4.0         4.5         4.8         5.0         5.0         4.8         4.2         3.5         2.8         2.5         2.6         2.8         3.2         3.5         3.8         4.1         4.2         4.2         3.9         3.2         2.5         1.6


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LL3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LL3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LL3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LL3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1                                       0.2                                                   0.3                                       1.4                                                   2.8                                       3.0                                                    1.8                                       0.6                                                    0.5                                       1.7                                                    3.0                                       3.2                                                     1.9                                       0.7                                                     0.7                                       1.9                                                     3.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.4                                     2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.2                                                                                                 3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8                                                                                                 0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.8

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8                 0.9                 0.9         1.0           1.2         1.5          2.0         2.6         3.2         3.8         4.4         4.9         5.3         5.4         5.1         4.5         3.5         2.6         2.2         2.3         2.8         3.4         3.9         4.5         5.0         5.3         5.4         5.2         4.4         3.4         2.4         1.9         2.0         2.5         2.9         3.4         3.9         4.4         4.7         4.8         4.6         3.9         2.9         1.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  135 W. Dorothy Lane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.6           0.6               0.6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5         0.6           0.8         1.2          1.8         2.5         3.2         3.9         4.7         5.5         6.3         6.8         6.5         5.4         3.9         2.6         1.9         2.2         2.7         3.4         4.1         4.8         5.6         6.3         6.9         6.6         5.4         3.8         2.5         1.7         1.9         2.4         2.9         3.6         4.3         5.0         5.7         6.4         6.2         5.1         3.5         2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Suite 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3           0.5               0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kettering, OH 45429
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0           1.0               0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5         0.4           0.6



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PEDESTRIAN-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0          1.7         2.6         3.4         4.3         5.4         6.6         7.9         7.9         7.5         6.4         4.6         2.7         2.0         2.2         2.9         3.6         4.5         5.5         6.7         7.9         8.0         7.6         6.4         4.6         2.6         1.8         1.9         2.5         3.2         3.9         4.9         6.1         7.3         7.5         7.2         6.1         4.4         2.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     phone 937-294-3650
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FOR ELEVATIONS, RE: E1.3-NORTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.0           1.9               1.5 1.3           0.6           0.5         1.0          1.8         2.7         3.7         4.8         6.2         7.9         9.3         9.9         9.5         7.7         5.3         3.1         2.1         2.4         3.2         4.0         5.0         6.4         8.0         9.4         10.0        9.6         7.8         5.3         3.1         2.0         2.1         2.7         3.5         4.4         5.7         7.2         8.7         9.3         9.0         7.4         5.1         2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       fax 937-294-3653
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.0           2.8               2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.1         1.1           0.6         1.0          1.9         2.9         3.9         5.2         6.9         9.1         10.8        11.8        11.3        8.8         5.9         3.4         2.3         2.6         3.4         4.3         5.5         7.1         9.2         10.8        11.9        11.4        8.9         6.0         3.4         2.2         2.3         2.9         3.7         4.7         6.2         8.2         9.9         11.0        10.6        8.4         5.6         2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   info@kaarchitecture.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.1           3.7               2.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2                         4.1           3.8   LL2         2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.4         1.3           0.6         1.0          2.0         3.0         4.1         5.5         7.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.5         11.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1   12.5        9.3         9.2         6.2         3.6         2.5         2.7         3.5         4.5         5.7         7.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11.4        12.6        9.4         9.3         6.3         3.7         2.3         2.4         3.0         3.8         4.9         6.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.4         10.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL1  11.4        8.4         8.6         5.7         3.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.1         1.1           0.6         1.2          2.0         3.1         4.2         5.6         7.2         9.3         10.9        11.8        11.2        8.8         6.1         3.7         2.6         2.8         3.5         4.6         5.8         7.4         9.4         11.0        11.9        11.3        9.0         6.3         3.8         2.5         2.5         3.1         3.8         4.9         6.2         8.0         9.5         10.5        10.1        8.0         5.4         2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.2           2.9               2.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.1           2.0               1.6 1.4           0.6           0.6         1.2          2.1         3.1         4.2         5.5         6.9         8.5         9.8         10.2        9.7         8.0         5.7         3.6         2.5         2.7         3.5         4.5         5.7         7.0         8.6         9.9         10.4        9.8         8.2         5.9         3.7         2.5         2.4         3.0         3.8         4.6         5.7         7.1         8.2         8.6         8.2         6.7         4.7         2.6



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1           1.0               0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4         0.3           0.6         1.3          2.1         3.2         4.2         5.3         6.5         7.7         8.9         8.9         8.3         7.0         5.2         3.4         2.5         2.7         3.6         4.5         5.5         6.7         7.8         9.0         9.0         8.5         7.3         5.4         3.6         2.6         2.5         3.0         3.7         4.3         5.1         6.0         7.0         7.0         6.4         5.5         3.9         2.2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2               0.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2         0.3           0.6         1.3          2.2         3.2         4.2         5.2         6.3         7.2         7.9         8.1         7.6         6.3         4.7         3.3         2.5         2.8         3.6         4.5         5.4         6.4         7.3         8.0         8.2         7.8         6.6         5.1         3.6         2.6         2.6         3.1         3.6         4.2         4.7         5.3         5.6         5.7         5.2         4.3         3.1         1.8

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1               0.1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2         0.3           0.7         1.3          2.2         3.2         4.3         5.3         6.2         7.1         7.6         7.7         7.2         6.1         4.6         3.2         2.6         2.9         3.6         4.6         5.5         6.4         7.3         7.7         7.8         7.4         6.4         5.0         3.6         2.8         2.8         3.1         3.6         4.1         4.4         4.8         4.8         4.5         4.0         3.3         2.4         1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1               0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1               0.1 0.2           0.3           0.7         1.4          2.3         3.4         4.4         5.4         6.4         7.3         7.9         8.0         7.5         6.4         4.8         3.3         2.6         2.9         3.8         4.7         5.7         6.6         7.5         8.1         8.2         7.8         6.8         5.3         3.8         3.0         3.0         3.3         3.7         4.1         4.3         4.5         4.3         3.9         3.4         2.7         1.9         1.2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FOR ELEVATIONS, RE: E1.3-EAST A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.1               0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2         0.3           0.7         1.4          2.4         3.5         4.6         5.7         6.9         8.0         8.9         9.6         8.9         7.4         5.4         3.6         2.7         3.1         4.0         4.9         5.9         7.1         8.1         9.1         9.7         9.2         7.9         6.0         4.3         3.2         3.2         3.6         3.9         4.3         4.4         4.4         4.1         3.6         3.0         2.2         1.6         1.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1               0.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2         0.4           0.7         1.4          2.4         3.6         4.8         6.1         7.5         9.0         10.4        10.5        10.0        8.4         6.1         3.9         2.9         3.2         4.1         5.2         6.4         7.7         9.2         10.5        10.7        10.2        8.8         6.9         4.8         3.7         3.5         3.9         4.2         4.5         4.6         4.5         4.1         3.4         2.7         1.9         1.4         1.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1               0.2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2         0.4           0.8         1.5          2.5         3.7         5.1         6.5         8.2         10.2        11.8        12.4        11.8        9.6         6.8         4.2         3.1         3.4         4.3         5.4         6.8         8.4         10.4        11.9        12.6        12.1        10.1        7.6         5.3         4.1         3.9         4.3         4.7         5.0         5.1         4.9         4.4         3.5         2.6         1.8         1.3         0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3               0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1           1.0               0.7 0.6           0.4           0.8         1.5          2.6         3.8         5.2         6.8         8.7         11.1        13.0        13.9        13.3        10.5        7.3         4.5         3.3         3.5         4.4         5.6         7.1         8.9         11.3        13.1        14.1        13.6        11.0        8.2         5.7         4.5         4.4         4.8         5.3         5.7         5.9         5.7         4.9         3.8         2.7         1.8         1.2         0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2                                                                                                                                             LL1(X5)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.0           2.0               1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.7         0.8           0.8         1.5          2.6         3.9         5.3         6.9         8.9         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11.3        13.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1   14.3        11.0        10.6        7.4         4.6         3.3         3.5         4.5         5.7         7.2         9.1         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13.3        14.4        11.3        11.2        8.4         6.0         4.8         4.8         5.4         6.2         6.9         7.3         7.2         5.9         4.3         2.8         1.7         1.2         0.8


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.1           2.9               2.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.3         1.3           0.8         1.5          2.6         4.0         5.3         6.9         8.7         10.8        12.4        13.2        12.5        10.0        7.1         4.5         3.2         3.6         4.6         5.7         7.2         8.9         11.0        12.6        13.4        12.8        10.7        8.3         6.1         5.0         5.3         6.2         7.4         8.5         8.6         8.2         6.9         5.0         3.0         1.8         1.2         0.9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4.1           3.8               2.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2                         4.1           3.8   LL2         2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.5         1.4           0.8         1.5          2.6         3.9         5.2         6.6         8.3         10.0        11.4        11.8        11.1        9.3         6.7         4.3         3.1         3.5         4.5         5.6         6.9         8.5         10.2        11.5        11.9        11.4        9.9         8.0         6.1         5.2         5.7         7.0         8.6         9.9         10.5        10.0        8.1         5.7         3.3         1.8         1.2         0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.1           2.9               2.2 2.0           1.1           0.8         1.5          2.6         3.8         5.1         6.4         7.9         9.3         10.6        11.0        10.2        8.7         6.4         4.2         3.1         3.4         4.4         5.5         6.7         8.1         9.5         10.7        11.1        10.5        9.4         7.7         6.1         5.4         6.0         7.6         9.7         11.2        12.2        11.5        9.0         6.2         3.6         2.0         1.3         0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Donald P. Kiley, License #12432021-0331
                                                 # 9B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.2         0.6           0.8         1.5          2.6         3.8         5.0         6.3         7.7         9.0         10.2        10.7        10.3        8.6         6.2         4.1         3.0         3.3         4.3         5.4         6.6         8.0         9.2         10.3        10.9        10.5        9.2         7.5         6.1         5.3         6.0         7.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11.6        12.8        9.1         9.3         6.5         3.8         2.1         1.4         1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Expiration Date 05/31/24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3         0.4           0.7         1.5          2.5         3.8         5.0         6.4         7.8         9.4         10.8        11.0        10.3        8.9         6.5         4.1         3.1         3.4         4.3         5.5         6.7         8.1         9.6         11.0        11.1        10.6        9.6         7.8         6.0         5.3         5.9         7.4         9.4         10.9        11.8        11.2        9.0         6.4         3.8         2.2         1.5         1.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2               0.2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MATCHLINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MATCHLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Architect Licensed in the following states:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2         0.3           0.7         1.5          2.6         3.8         5.1         6.5         8.2         10.1        11.5        12.1        11.4        9.5         6.8         4.3         3.0         3.4         4.4         5.5         6.9         8.4         10.3        11.7        12.2        11.8        10.2        8.1         6.1         5.1         5.6         6.8         8.4         9.6         10.1        9.6         8.1         6.0         3.8         2.3         1.5         1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1               0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MATCHLINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MATCHLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1               0.2 0.2           0.4           0.7         1.5          2.6         3.8         5.1         6.6         8.5         10.8        12.5        13.4        12.7        10.1        7.1         4.4         3.1         3.5         4.4         5.6         7.0         8.8         10.9        12.6        13.6        13.1        10.8        8.3         6.0         4.8         5.2         6.1         7.2         8.5         8.6         8.2         7.3         5.6         3.8         2.5         1.6         1.1




                                                                           # 10 B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1               0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2         0.4           0.7         1.4          2.5         3.8         5.0         6.5         8.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.8        12.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1   13.8        7.8         10.3        7.2         4.4         3.1         3.4         4.4         5.5         6.9         8.7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12.9        14.1        8.2         10.9        8.1         5.8         4.6         4.7         5.5         6.3         7.0         7.6         7.3         6.5         5.3         3.9         2.7         1.8         1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OH, FL, TN, IL, IN, KY, MI, MN,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1               0.2




                                  # 8B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.1               0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2         0.4           0.8         1.5          2.5         3.7         4.9         6.4         8.1         10.3        12.0        12.9        12.3        9.7         6.8         4.3         3.1         3.4         4.2         5.3         6.7         8.4         10.5        12.2        13.1        12.6        10.3        7.7         5.4         4.3         4.4         5.0         5.7         6.2         6.5         6.6         6.1         5.3         4.2         3.1         2.1         1.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AZ, NJ, WV, VA, PA, MD, DE, ID, SC, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2         0.4           0.7         1.4          2.4         3.5         4.7         6.0         7.4         9.2         10.5        11.1        10.5        8.6         6.2         4.0         3.0         3.2         4.0         5.1         6.2         7.7         9.4         10.7        11.3        10.8        9.2         7.0         5.0         4.0         4.0         4.6         5.3         5.9         6.2         6.4         6.2         5.7         4.8         3.7         2.6         1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1               0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2 0.2           0.4           0.8         1.4          2.3         3.4         4.4         5.5         6.7         8.0         9.2         9.2         8.7         7.4         5.5         3.7         2.9         3.1         3.8         4.7         5.7         6.9         8.2         9.4         9.5         9.0         7.9         6.2         4.5         3.7         3.8         4.4         5.0         5.7         6.2         6.6         6.8         6.6         5.9         4.7         3.2         1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1               0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2         0.4           0.8         1.4          2.3         3.2         4.1         5.1         6.1         7.0         7.7         8.2         7.7         6.4         4.8         3.4         2.7         2.9         3.6         4.4         5.3         6.3         7.2         7.9         8.4         8.1         6.9         5.4         4.1         3.4         3.5         4.2         4.9         5.7         6.5         7.3         8.0         8.0         7.2         6.0         4.1         2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               The first Two (2) pages of this set of documents should contain a "red" seal with blue signature / date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.4           0.2               0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GENERAL NOTE: ALL CALCULATIONS ARE FOR BUSINESS HOURS.                                                                                                                                                           over the seal. The seal should be embossed in order to distinguish the documents as the "official"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2         0.4           0.8         1.4          2.2         3.1         4.0         4.8         5.7         6.4         6.8         6.8         6.4         5.4         4.2         3.1         2.6         2.7         3.5         4.2         5.1         5.9         6.5         7.0         7.1         6.8         5.9         4.8         3.7         3.2         3.3         4.1         4.9         5.9         6.9         8.2         9.3         9.4         8.8         7.2         4.9         2.6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.3           0.7               0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   permit documents intended for permitting and construction. If the documents do not contain these
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2                                                                                                                                                  LL1(X5)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.1           1.5               0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4         0.3           0.7         1.3          2.1         3.0         3.9         4.7         5.5         6.1         6.4         6.3         5.9         5.0         3.9         2.9         2.4         2.7         3.4         4.1         4.9         5.6         6.2         6.6         6.6         6.3         5.5         4.5         3.5         3.0         3.4         4.1         5.0         6.0         7.4         9.1         10.5        11.2        10.6        8.4         5.6         2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       appropriate markings no permits should be issued nor should inspections be granted. K&A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.8           1.9               1.0 0.7           0.4           0.7         1.3          2.1         2.9         3.8         4.6         5.4         6.1         6.4         6.4         6.0         5.1         4.0         2.9         2.4         2.7         3.3         4.1         4.9         5.6         6.2         6.6         6.6         6.4         5.6         4.6         3.5         2.9         3.3         4.0         4.9         6.0         7.5         9.5         11.1        12.1        8.9         9.0         5.9         3.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Architecture should be notified immediately of any such deficiencies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1                 PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2                                                                                                                                                                                       LL2   3.1           2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.9         0.4           0.7         1.3          2.0         2.9         3.8         4.7         5.5         6.3         6.8         6.9         6.5         5.5         4.2         3.0         2.4         2.5         3.3         4.1         4.9         5.7         6.4         7.0         7.1         6.9         6.0         4.8         3.7         3.0         3.2         4.0         4.9         5.9         7.4         9.3         10.7        11.6        11.0        8.6         5.8         3.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.8           1.9



                                         # 11B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.0           1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.6         0.4           0.7         1.3          2.0         2.9         3.8         4.8         5.8         6.8         7.8         8.4         7.9         6.6         4.8         3.2         2.4         2.6         3.3         4.1         5.1         6.0         7.0         7.9         8.6         8.3         7.1         5.4         3.9         3.1         3.3         4.0         4.8         5.7         6.9         8.4         9.5         9.9         9.3         7.5         5.2         2.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FOR ELEVATIONS, RE: E1.4-EAST B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.3           0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3         0.3           0.6         1.2          2.0         3.0         4.0         5.1         6.3         7.7         9.0         9.2         8.8         7.4         5.4         3.4         2.5         2.7         3.4         4.3         5.3         6.5         7.9         9.2         9.5         9.2         7.9         6.1         4.1         3.3         3.4         4.0         4.7         5.4         6.3         7.3         8.1         8.0         7.4         6.1         4.4         2.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.1           0.5                     0.2         0.3           0.6         1.2          2.0         3.0         4.1         5.3         6.8         8.7         10.2        10.9        10.4        8.5         5.9         3.6         2.6         2.8         3.5         4.4         5.6         7.0         8.9         10.4        11.2        10.9        9.1         6.7         4.5         3.5         3.6         4.1         4.6         5.2         5.8         6.3         6.6         6.9         6.2         5.0         3.5         2.0




                           # 7B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2                                                                                                                                        LL1(X5)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.8           1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4         0.3           0.6         1.1          2.0         3.0         4.1         5.4         7.1         9.3         11.1        12.2        11.7        9.1         6.2         3.8         2.6         2.8         3.6         4.5         5.7         7.3         9.5         11.3        12.5        12.1        9.8         7.1         4.8         3.7         3.8         4.2         4.7         5.1         5.4         5.7         5.6         5.3         4.6         3.7         2.7         1.7


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.5           1.8

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.7         0.3           0.6         1.1          2.0         3.0         4.0         5.3         7.0         9.3         11.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1   12.2        9.0         9.1         6.2         3.7         2.6         2.8         3.6         4.4         5.6         7.3         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11.2        12.5        9.5         9.8         7.2         4.9         3.8         3.9         4.4         4.8         5.1         5.3         5.3         5.0         4.5         3.8         2.9         2.2         1.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.1           2.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2                                                                                                                                                                                       LL2   3.0           2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.8         0.3           0.6         1.2          2.0         2.9         3.9         5.1         6.6         8.5         10.0        10.8        10.3        8.2         5.8         3.5         2.5         2.8         3.5         4.3         5.4         6.8         8.7         10.1        11.0        10.7        8.9         6.9         4.9         4.0         4.1         4.7         5.1         5.4         5.5         5.3         4.8         4.1         3.2         2.5         1.8         1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.3           1.7                     0.5         0.3           0.6         1.1          1.9         2.8         3.7         4.7         5.9         7.3         8.5         8.8         8.4         7.0         5.1         3.2         2.4         2.6         3.3         4.0         4.9         6.1         7.5         8.7         9.1         8.8         7.8         6.3         4.8         4.1         4.4         5.0         5.5         5.9         5.9         5.7         5.0         4.0         3.0         2.2         1.6         1.1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.6           1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2         0.3           0.6         1.1          1.8         2.6         3.4         4.3         5.2         6.2         7.1         7.4         6.8         5.9         4.3         2.9         2.2         2.4         3.0         3.7         4.5         5.4         6.3         7.3         7.6         7.2         6.7         5.7         4.7         4.3         4.7         5.4         6.2         6.7         6.9         6.4         5.5         4.1         2.8         1.9         1.4         1.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.0           0.6




                                                                                                                             # 17B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BUILDING ENTRANCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.6           1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3         0.3           0.6         1.1          1.7         2.5         3.2         3.9         4.6         5.3         5.8         6.0         5.6         4.8         3.6         2.6         2.1         2.2         2.8         3.5         4.1         4.8         5.5         5.9         6.2         6.1         5.7         5.1         4.7         4.6         5.1         6.1         7.3         8.4         8.1         7.6         6.3         4.4         2.7         1.9         1.4         1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.0               0.3    0.4         0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1          1.7         2.4         3.0         3.7         4.3         4.8         5.1         5.1         4.8         4.1         3.2         2.4         2.1         2.2         2.6         3.3         3.9         4.4         4.9         5.2         5.3         5.2         5.0         4.8         4.6         4.9         5.7         7.0         8.7         9.5         9.3         8.9         7.1         4.8         2.9         1.8         1.3         1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.5           3.9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.4               0.4    0.3         0.6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.6           4.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1          1.7         2.3         2.9         3.6         4.1         4.5         4.7         4.6         4.3         3.7         2.9         2.3         1.9         2.1         2.5         3.1         3.7         4.2         4.6         4.8         4.8         4.7         4.6         4.6         4.7         5.1         6.2         7.9         9.9         11.2        11.6        10.3        7.9         5.2         3.0         1.9         1.4         1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.5           4.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.4               0.4    0.4         0.6


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PEDESTRIAN-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.7         2.3         2.9         3.5         4.1         4.4         4.6         4.5         4.2         3.5         2.8         2.3         1.9         2.0         2.5         3.1         3.7         4.2         4.5         4.7         4.6         4.6         4.5         4.5         4.7         5.1         6.3         8.3         10.5        12.2        12.8        8.8         8.3         5.4         3.2         1.9         1.4         1.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2 RR1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.5           4.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.5               0.4    0.4         0.6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1               PL1
                                           # 12B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.4               0.4    0.4         0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1          1.7         2.3         3.0         3.6         4.1         4.5         4.7         4.5         4.2         3.6         2.9         2.3         1.9         2.0         2.6         3.1         3.7         4.2         4.6         4.8         4.7         4.7         4.6         4.5         4.7         5.1         6.3         8.2         10.4        11.9        12.4        11.0        8.2         5.4         3.2         2.0         1.4         1.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.7           4.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.4               0.4    0.4         0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1          1.7         2.4         3.1         3.7         4.3         4.8         5.0         5.0         4.7         3.9         3.1         2.3         2.0         2.1         2.6         3.3         3.9         4.4         4.9         5.1         5.1         5.1         4.9         4.8         4.7         5.0         6.0         7.5         9.4         10.5        10.9        9.7         7.7         5.2         3.2         2.0         1.4         1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.5           3.8

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.0               0.4    0.4         0.6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1          1.7         2.5         3.2         3.9         4.6         5.2         5.5         5.6         5.3         4.5         3.5         2.5         2.1         2.2         2.8         3.4         4.1         4.7         5.3         5.7         5.8         5.8         5.5         5.0         4.6         4.8         5.4         6.6         8.1         8.9         9.1         8.3         6.9         4.9         3.2         2.1         1.5         1.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MATCHLINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MATCHLINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2         0.3           0.6         1.1          1.8         2.7         3.5         4.2         5.1         5.9         6.5         6.9         6.6         5.5         4.1         2.8         2.2         2.4         3.0         3.7         4.4         5.2         6.0         6.7         7.1         7.1         6.4         5.5         4.7         4.4         5.0         5.9         6.8         7.8         8.0         7.4         6.3         4.7         3.3         2.2         1.6         1.1



                                    # 6B                                                                                                                                                                                                     MATCHLINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MATCHLINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.8

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3         0.3           0.6         1.2          2.0         2.9         3.7         4.7         5.7         6.9         8.1         8.2         7.8         6.7         4.9         3.0         2.3         2.6         3.3         4.0         4.8         5.9         7.1         8.3         8.4         8.2         7.5         6.1         4.7         4.2         4.6         5.3         6.0         6.5         6.7         6.4         5.7         4.6         3.5         2.5         1.7         1.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.6



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.6         0.3           0.6         1.2          2.0         3.0         4.0         5.1         6.5         8.2         9.5         10.0        9.5         7.9         5.6         3.4         2.4         2.8         3.5         4.3         5.3         6.7         8.3         9.6         10.2        10.0        8.7         6.7         4.8         4.0         4.3         4.9         5.5         5.9         6.1         6.0         5.6         4.8         3.9         3.0         2.1         1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.2


                                                                                                                            # 16B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2                                                                                                                                                                                       LL2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.6                             0.8         0.3           0.6         1.2          2.1         3.2         4.2         5.5         7.2         9.3         10.9        11.9        11.3        9.0         6.2         3.7         2.6         2.9         3.7         4.6         5.8         7.4         9.4         11.0        12.1        11.8        9.7         7.2         5.0         3.9         4.1         4.7         5.2         5.7         6.0         6.1         5.9         5.4         4.6         3.6         2.6         1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1                                                                                                                                                     PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.7         0.3           0.6         1.2          2.1         3.2         4.4         5.7         7.5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.7         11.6        12.8        6.8         9.5         6.5         3.9         2.7         2.9         3.7         4.7         5.9         7.6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.9         11.8        13.1        7.3         10.2        7.4         5.0         3.8         4.0         4.5         5.1         5.7         6.1         6.4         6.6         6.4         5.7         4.5         3.2         1.9



                                                                                                                                         # 18B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4         0.4           0.7         1.3          2.2         3.3         4.4         5.8         7.5         9.6         11.3        12.2        11.7        9.2         6.4         3.9         2.7         3.0         3.7         4.7         6.0         7.7         9.8         11.4        12.5        12.1        9.9         7.2         4.9         3.7         3.8         4.4         5.1         5.8         6.5         7.2         7.9         7.9         7.1         6.0         4.1         2.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2                                                                                                                                             LL1(X5)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PEDESTRIAN-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3         0.4           0.7         1.4          2.3         3.3         4.4         5.7         7.1         8.9         10.2        10.7        10.2        8.3         5.9         3.8         2.7         2.8         3.7         4.7         5.8         7.2         9.0         10.3        11.0        10.6        8.9         6.7         4.6         3.6         3.7         4.4         5.2         6.1         7.1         8.3         9.3         9.4         8.8         7.2         4.9         2.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4         0.4           0.7         1.4          2.3         3.3         4.3         5.5         6.7         8.0         9.3         9.2         8.7         7.3         5.4         3.5         2.6         2.8         3.6         4.5         5.6         6.8         8.0         9.3         9.4         9.0         7.9         6.1         4.4         3.5         3.6         4.4         5.3         6.3         7.7         9.4         10.6        11.3        10.6        8.4         5.6         3.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FOR ELEVATIONS, RE: E1.4-EAST C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.7         0.4           0.8         1.4          2.3         3.3         4.3         5.4         6.4         7.4         8.1         8.6         8.0         6.6         4.9         3.3         2.4         2.7         3.5         4.4         5.4         6.4         7.3         8.1         8.7         8.3         7.1         5.6         4.1         3.3         3.6         4.4         5.4         6.5         7.9         9.9         11.4        12.3        9.0         9.0         6.0         3.2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1                 PL1
                                                                                                     # 14B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2                                                                                                                                                                                       LL2         2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.9         0.4           0.8         1.4          2.3         3.4         4.4         5.4         6.4         7.2         7.7         7.8         7.3         6.2         4.7         3.2         2.5         2.7         3.5         4.4         5.3         6.2         7.1         7.6         7.8         7.5         6.6         5.4         4.0         3.4         3.7         4.5         5.4         6.6         8.0         9.8         11.2        11.9        11.3        8.8         5.8         3.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.7         0.5           0.8         1.5          2.4         3.5         4.5         5.5         6.5         7.4         7.9         8.0         7.5         6.3         4.8         3.3         2.6         2.7         3.5         4.4         5.3         6.3         7.1         7.7         7.9         7.6         6.7         5.5         4.1         3.5         3.8         4.6         5.5         6.5         7.6         9.1         10.1        10.4        9.6         7.7         5.2         2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.1


                                                     # 13B                                                                  # 15B
                                # 5B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FOR ELEVATIONS, RE: E1.5-SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.4                             0.4         0.5           0.9         1.6          2.5         3.7         4.7         5.8         6.9         7.9         8.8         9.3         8.8         7.2         5.3         3.5         2.6         2.9         3.7         4.5         5.5         6.6         7.5         8.5         9.1         8.8         7.5         5.9         4.4         3.6         4.0         4.7         5.5         6.3         7.2         8.1         8.9         8.6         7.8         6.3         4.5         2.5


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NO.                             DESCRIPTION                                            DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4         0.6           1.0         1.7          2.7         3.8         5.0         6.2         7.5         8.9         10.3        10.2        9.7         8.2         6.0         3.7         2.8         3.0         3.8         4.7         5.8         7.0         8.4         9.8         9.8         9.5         8.4         6.6         4.7         4.0         4.1         4.9         5.6         6.3         6.9         7.4         7.6         7.7         6.7         5.2         3.7         2.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.10.10.10.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.20.10.10.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.30.20.10.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.30.30.30.10.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.40.40.50.50.20.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.50.50.71.01.20.10.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.60.70.91.42.44.10.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.70.81.11.93.89.026.90.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.70.91.22.14.311.243.50.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.70.81.11.83.26.64.60.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.70.80.91.32.01.40.10.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.70.70.80.90.60.10.10.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.70.70.60.50.20.10.10.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.70.60.50.30.20.10.10.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.70.60.40.30.20.10.10.10.00.00.00.00.00.00.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1                                                                                               2.1                                                                                                 3.2                                                                                                      4.1                                                                                                 4.0                                                                                                   3.0                                                                                               2.1                                                                                       1.1             0.4           0.4



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PEDESTRIAN-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5         0.7           1.1         1.8          2.8         4.0         5.2         6.7         8.2         10.1        11.6        12.1        11.5        9.4         6.7         4.1         3.0         3.1         3.9         4.9         6.2         7.6         9.4         10.8        11.4        11.1        9.4         7.2         5.2         4.3         4.5         5.2         5.9         6.5         7.0         7.2         6.9         6.3         5.3         4.1         3.0         1.8


                                                                                    # 4B
                                                                                                       # 3B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LL2                                                                                                2.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SITE BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.5                                                                                                    2.8                                                                                                                                                  1.6                                                                                                      0.5                                                                                                                                                 0.5                                                                                                    0.5                                                                                                      0.6               0.7                 0.8                 0.8         1.0           1.4         2.1          3.2         4.5         5.7         7.2         9.0         11.1        12.7        13.6        12.9        10.2        7.2         4.5         3.1         3.2         4.0         5.0         6.2         7.8         9.9         11.4        12.3        11.9        9.9         7.7         5.9         5.2         5.7         6.8         8.1         9.6         9.0         9.4         8.5         6.5         4.4         3.0         2.1         1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NORTH


                                                                                                                     # 2A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1                                                                                                         5.4                                                                                                    3.9                                                                                                                                                  2.2                                                                                                      0.5                                                                                                                                                 0.4                                                                                                    0.6                                                                                                      0.8               0.9                 0.9                 1.0         1.2           1.5         2.2          3.3         4.5         5.7         7.0         8.6         10.4        11.7        12.1        11.4        9.5         6.9         4.3         3.0         3.1         3.9         4.8         5.9         7.2         8.8         10.0        10.5        10.1        8.8         7.2         5.8         5.3         6.1         7.5         9.3         10.7        11.4        11.1        9.5         7.0         4.6         3.0         2.1         1.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.7                                                                                                    3.5                                                                                                                                                  2.0                                                                                                      0.5                                                                                                                                                 0.5                                                                                                    0.7                                                                                                      0.9               1.1                 1.2                 1.3         1.4           1.8         2.4          3.4         4.5         5.7         6.9         8.2         9.7         11.0        11.1        10.4        8.9         6.6         4.2         3.0         3.1         3.7         4.6         5.5         6.6         7.7         8.8         8.9         8.5         7.7         6.6         5.6         5.4         6.3         8.1         10.4        12.2        13.2        12.7        10.4        7.6         4.9         3.1         2.2         1.5                               SITE BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                                      # 1B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SITE BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                                                              # 2B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NO SUBCONTRACTOR SHOULD BE PROVIDED WITH A
                                                                    # 3A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.1                                                        0.1                                         0.1                                                                                   0.1                                                                                                    0.1                                                                                                                                                  0.2                                                                                                      0.5                                                                                                                                                 0.9                                                                                                    1.3                                                                                                      1.6               1.9                 2.1                 2.2         2.3           2.5         3.1          3.9         5.0         6.0         7.2         8.6         10.3        11.7        12.1        11.4        9.5         6.8         4.2         2.8         2.9         3.5         4.3         5.0         5.7         6.3         6.7         6.7         6.4         5.9         5.4         4.9         4.9         5.9         7.4         9.4         10.8        11.7        11.3        9.8         7.5         5.2         3.4         2.4         1.6



                                                                                                                                                                                                   # 18A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.1                                         0.1                                                                                   0.1                                                                                                    0.2                                                                                                                                                  0.3                                                                                                      0.5                                                                                                                                                 1.0                                                                                                    1.5                                                                                                      2.0               2.4                 2.6                 2.7         2.7           2.9         3.3          4.2         5.2         6.1         7.4         9.0         11.1        12.7        13.5        12.8        10.3        7.2         4.4         2.9         2.9         3.5         4.2         5.0         5.8         6.5         6.9         7.0         6.8         6.2         5.4         4.7         4.6         5.3         6.6         8.2         9.7         10.0        9.9         9.0         7.3         5.3         3.8         2.6         1.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PARTIAL SET OF PLANS FOR EITHER BIDDING OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PEDESTRIAN-1                PEDESTRIAN-1

                                                                                                                                                                                           # 15A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.1                                         0.1                                                                                   0.1                                                                                                    0.2                                                                                                                                                  0.4                                                                                                      0.6                                                                                                                                                 1.2                                                                                                    1.9                                                                                                      2.5               3.0                 3.2                 3.3         3.2           3.3         3.6          4.4         5.2         6.2         7.4         9.1         11.3        13.2        14.3        11.0        10.6        7.4         4.5         3.0         2.9         3.5         4.3         5.1         6.0         6.9         7.7         8.3         8.1         7.0         5.7         4.7         4.3         4.8         5.9         7.1         8.3         9.3         9.2         8.5         7.3         5.8         4.3         3.0         1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES WITHOUT FIRST TAKING
                                                                                                                                                                        # 12A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1                 PL1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AMPLE TIME TO REVIEW A COMPLETE SET IN ORDER TO
                                                 A                                                                                               # 1A
                                            #4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.1                                         0.1                                                                                   0.2                                                                                                    0.2                                                                                                                                                  0.3                                                                                                      0.8                                                                                                                                                 1.5                                                                                                    2.5                                                                                                      3.3               3.8                 4.1                 4.1         3.9           3.8         4.0          4.6         5.3         6.2         7.3         8.9         11.1        12.8        13.7        13.1        10.3        7.1         4.3         2.9         2.9         3.5         4.3         5.3         6.4         7.7         9.0         9.1         8.8         7.8         6.3         4.6         4.1         4.5         5.4         6.5         7.3         8.1         8.4         8.4         7.9         6.9         5.3         3.6         2.1

                                                                                       # 6A                                                                                                                # 17A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PEDESTRIAN-2

                                                                                                                               # 9A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DETERMINE FOR THEMSELVES THE INFORMATION AND
                                                                                                                     # 7A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.1                                         0.2                                                                                   0.2                                                                                                    0.3                                                                                                                                                  0.4                                                                                                      0.9                                                                                                                                                 1.9                                                                                                    3.2                                                                                                      4.5               5.5                 5.7                 5.2         4.7           4.4         4.4          4.8         5.4         6.1         7.1         8.3         10.1        11.5        12.0        11.4        9.3         6.6         4.1         2.8         2.8         3.4         4.4         5.5         6.9         8.7         10.0        10.7        10.4        8.8         6.6         4.7         3.9         4.3         5.1         6.0         6.9         7.8         8.6         9.3         8.9         7.8         6.4         4.5         2.4




                                                                                                                                                        # 10A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.1                                         0.2                                                                                   0.3                                                                                                    0.3                                                                                                                                                  0.5                                                                                                      1.1                                                                                                                                                 2.3                                                                                                    4.1                                                                                                      5.6               6.6                 6.9                 6.8         5.8           5.1         4.8          5.1         5.5         6.0         6.7         7.6         8.9         10.2        10.2        9.6         8.0         5.9         3.7         2.6         2.6         3.4         4.3         5.6         7.2         9.4         11.0        12.1        11.7        9.5         6.9         4.7         3.7         4.0         4.9         5.7         6.6         7.9         9.1         10.1        10.3        9.4         7.5         5.2         2.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DOCUMENTATION THEY WISH TO HAVE COPIED. THERE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ARE MANY CROSS-REFERENCES IN A SET OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.2                                         0.2                                                                                   0.3                                                                                                    0.4                                                                                                                                                  0.6                                                                                                      1.2                                                                                                                                                 2.7                                                                                                    4.9                                                                                                      7.0               8.5                 8.8                 8.2         7.0           5.8         5.3          5.2         5.5         5.8         6.3         7.1         8.0         8.8         9.3         8.6         7.1         5.2         3.4         2.3         2.6         3.3         4.2         5.4         7.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.3         11.1        12.4        9.3         9.5         6.8         4.5         3.4         3.8         4.6         5.5         6.6         8.0         9.7         11.1        11.8        11.0        8.6         5.7         3.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. ANY DISCREPANCIES
                                                                                                                            # 9A                                                                                   # 16A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.2                                         0.3                                                                                   0.3                                                                                                    0.5                                                                                                                                                  0.7                                                                                                      1.3                                                                                                                                                 3.0                                                                                                    5.5                                                                                                      8.2               10.4                10.6                9.5         8.0           6.4         5.5          5.3         5.5         5.7         6.1         6.7         7.4         7.9         8.0         7.5         6.3         4.8         3.2         2.4         2.5         3.1         4.0         5.1         6.6         8.6         10.1        11.1        10.7        8.7         6.3         4.1         3.1         3.4         4.2         5.1         6.3         7.7

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9.6         11.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL1  12.3        6.2         9.0         5.8         3.1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE DESIGN
                                                                                              # 8A
                                                                                                                                                                           # 13A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.2                                         0.3                                                                                   0.4                                                                                                    0.5                                                                                                                                                  0.7                                                                                                      1.3                                                                                                                                                 3.1                                                                                                    5.8                                                                                                      8.7               5.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PL1   11.3                10.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.2           6.5         5.6          5.3         5.4         5.6         5.9         6.5         7.2         7.7         7.8         7.3         6.2         4.7         3.1         2.3         2.3         2.9         3.6         4.6         5.8         7.3         8.5         9.0         8.6         7.3         5.4         3.6         2.8         3.1         3.9         4.7         5.8         7.2         9.0         10.5        11.3        10.8        8.4         5.6         3.0


                                                             # 5A                                                                                               # 11A              # 14A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.2                                         0.3                                                                                   0.3                                                                                                    0.5                                                                                                                                                  0.6                                                                                                      1.2                                                                                                                                                 2.9                                                                                                    5.5                                                                                                      8.2               10.2                10.5                9.5         7.9           6.3         5.5          5.2         5.4         5.5         5.9         6.6         7.4         8.1         8.5         8.0         6.7         4.9         3.2         2.1         2.2         2.7         3.2         4.0         4.8         5.9         7.0         7.1         6.7         5.9         4.5         3.1         2.5         2.7         3.4         4.3         5.2         6.3         7.8         8.9         9.4         8.9         7.0         5.0         2.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROFESSIONAL FOR FORMAL CLARIFICATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.2                                         0.2                                                                                   0.3                                                                                                    0.4                                                                                                                                                  0.6                                                                                                      1.1                                                                                                                                                 2.6                                                                                                    4.9                                                                                                      7.1               8.4                 8.7                 8.2         6.9           5.7         5.1          5.0         5.2         5.5         6.0         6.9         8.0         9.3         9.3         8.7         7.5         5.4         3.3         2.2         2.0         2.4         2.9         3.4         4.1         4.7         5.2         5.6         5.3         4.6         3.5         2.6         2.1         2.4         3.0         3.7         4.4         5.3         6.3         7.4         7.4         6.8         5.8         4.2         2.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SUBCONTRACTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR BIDDING AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.2                                         0.2                                                                                   0.3                                                                                                    0.4                                                                                                                                                  0.5                                                                                                      1.0                                                                                                                                                 2.2                                                                                                    4.1                                                                                                      5.8               6.6                 7.0                 6.8         5.7           5.0         4.6          4.7         5.0         5.4         6.1         7.2         8.8         10.2        10.7        10.2        8.4         5.9         3.5         2.1         1.9         2.2         2.5         3.0         3.4         3.8         4.0         4.1         3.9         3.5         2.8         2.2         1.9         2.1         2.6         3.1         3.7         4.4         5.0         5.6         6.0         5.6         4.6         3.3         1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONSTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE COMPLETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.1                                         0.2                                                                                   0.2                                                                                                    0.3                                                                                                                                                  0.4                                                                                                      0.8                                                                                                                                                 1.8                                                                                                    3.2                                                                                                      4.5               5.4                 5.5                 5.2         4.7           4.3         4.1          4.4         4.8         5.3         6.2         7.6         9.6         11.2        12.1        11.5        9.1         6.2         3.6         2.1         1.8         2.0         2.3         2.5         2.8         3.1         3.3         3.3         3.1         2.7         2.3         1.8         1.6         1.8         2.2         2.7         3.1         3.6         4.0         4.3         4.3         4.0         3.4               2.2         1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS, NOT SPECIFIC SHEETS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ONLY HAVING A PARTIAL SET OF DRAWINGS SHALL NOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.1                                         0.2                                                                                   0.2                                                                                                    0.3                                                                                                                                                  0.4                                                                                                      0.8                                                                                                                                                 1.5                                                                                                    2.5                                                                                                      3.4               4.0                 4.2                 4.1         3.9           3.6         3.6          4.0         4.5         5.0         5.9         7.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.6         11.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1   12.6        6.6         9.3         6.3         3.6         2.1         1.8         1.8         2.0         2.2         2.4         2.6         2.7         2.6         2.5         2.2         1.8         1.5         1.4         1.5         1.9         2.3         2.6         3.0         3.3         3.4         3.3               3.0         2.4         1.8         1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SITE BOUNDARY EAST, SOUTH, WEST


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.1                                         0.2                                                                                   0.2                                                                                                    0.3                                                                                                                                                  0.4                                                                                                      0.6                                                                                                                                                 1.2                                                                                                    2.0                                                                                                      2.6               3.1                 3.3                 3.3         3.2           3.1         3.3          3.7         4.2         4.7         5.6         7.0         9.0         10.5        11.5        11.0        8.6         5.9         3.4         1.9         1.6         1.6         1.7         1.9         2.0         2.1         2.2         2.2         2.0         1.8         1.5         1.3         1.2         1.3         1.6         1.9         2.2         2.5         2.7               2.8         2.6         2.3         1.9         1.4         0.9                                                                                                                                                                                                   SITE BOUNDARY EAST, SOUTH, WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BE ACCEPTED AS AN EXCUSE FOR DELAYS OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.1                                         0.2                                                                                   0.2                                                                                                    0.3                                                                                                                                                  0.3                                                                                                      0.6                                                                                                                                                 1.1                                                                                                    1.6                                                                                                      2.1               2.5                 2.6                 2.7         2.7           2.7         2.9          3.3         3.8         4.3         5.1         6.2         7.7         8.9         9.5         9.0         7.4         5.2         3.1         1.7         1.4         1.4         1.5         1.6         1.7         1.8         1.8         1.8         1.7         1.5         1.3         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.3         1.6         1.8         2.0               2.2         2.3         2.1         1.9         1.5         1.1         0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INCOMPLETE WORK.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                            0.0                                               0.0                                            0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.1                                         0.2                                                                                   0.2                                                                                                    0.3                                                                                                                                                  0.3                                                                                                      0.6                                                                                                                                                 0.9                                                                                                    1.3                                                                                                      1.7               2.1                 2.2                 2.3         2.2           2.3         2.5          2.9         3.4         3.8         4.4         5.2         6.3         7.3         7.4         6.9         5.9         4.3         2.6         1.5         1.2         1.2         1.3         1.3         1.4         1.5         1.5         1.4         1.4         1.2         1.1         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.1         1.3               1.6         1.7         1.8         1.8         1.7         1.5         1.2         0.9         0.6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PEDESTRIAN-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                            0.0                                               0.0                                            0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.2                                         0.2                                                                                   0.3                                                                                                    0.3                                                                                                                                                  0.4                                                                                                      0.6                                                                                                                                                 0.9                                                                                                    1.2                                                                                                      1.5               1.7                 1.8                 1.9         1.9           2.0         2.2          2.5         2.9         3.3         3.8         4.4         5.0         5.5         6.0         5.6         4.6         3.4         2.2         1.3         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.1         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.1         1.0         0.9         0.8         0.8         0.9               1.0         1.2         1.3         1.4         1.5         1.5         1.4         1.3         1.0         0.8         0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                            0.0                                               0.0                                            0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7         0.8         0.9         1.0         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.1         1.0         0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1                                                    0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.1                                                        0.2                                         0.3                                                                                   0.4                                                                                                    0.5                                                                                                                                                  0.6                                                                                                      0.7                                                                                                                                                 0.9                                                                                                    1.1                                                                                                      1.3               1.5                 1.6                 1.6         1.6           1.7         1.9          2.2         2.5         2.9         3.2         3.6         4.0         4.2         4.3         4.0         3.4         2.6         1.7         1.1         0.8         0.8         0.9         0.9         0.9         1.0         1.0         0.9         0.9         0.8         0.7         0.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PEDESTRIAN-3


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BUILDING ENTRANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT NAME:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                            0.0                                               0.0                                            0.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6         0.6         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.9         0.9         1.0         0.9         0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1                                                    0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                        0.2                                                        0.4                                         0.5                                                                                   0.5                                                                                                    0.6                                                                                                                                                  0.7                                                                                                      0.8                                                                                                                                                 0.9                                                                                                    1.0                                                                                                      1.2               1.3                 1.3                 1.3         1.3           1.4         1.6          1.9         2.2         2.5         2.7         3.0         3.2         3.3         3.3         3.1         2.6         2.1         1.4         0.9         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GENERAL SITE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                            0.0                                               0.1                                            0.1                                                                            0.1                                                    0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.1                                       0.2                                                     0.2                                        0.3                                                        0.5                                         0.6                                                                                   0.7                                                                                                    0.8                                                                                                                                                  0.9                                                                                                      0.9                                                                                                                                                 0.9                                                                                                    1.0                                                                                                      1.0               1.1                 1.1                 1.1         1.2           1.2         1.4          1.6         1.9         2.1         2.3         2.5         2.6         2.7         2.6         2.4         2.1         1.7         1.2         0.8         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6               0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.8                                                                                                                                                                                       PEDESTRIAN-3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PEDESTRIAN-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                            0.1                                               0.1                                            0.1                                                                            0.1                                                    0.1                                       0.1                                                     0.2                                       0.2                                                     0.2                                       0.3                                                     0.3                                        0.6                                                        0.8                                         0.9                                                                                   1.0                                                                                                    1.1                                                                                                                                                  1.1                                                                                                      1.0                                                                                                                                                 1.0                                                                                                    1.0                                                                                                      1.0               1.0                 0.9                 1.0         1.0           1.1         1.2          1.4         1.6         1.8         1.9         2.1         2.2         2.2         2.1         2.0         1.7         1.3         1.0         0.7         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5               0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.1                                               0.1                                            0.1                                                                            0.1                                                    0.2                                       0.2                                                     0.2                                       0.2                                                     0.2                                       0.4                                                     0.6                                        0.9                                                        1.2                                         1.3                                                                                   1.4                                                                                                    1.4                                                                                                                                                  1.3                                                                                                      1.2                                                                                                                                                 1.1                                                                                                    1.1                                                                                                      1.0               0.9                 0.9                 0.9         0.9           0.9         1.0          1.2         1.3         1.5         1.6         1.7         1.8         1.8         1.7         1.6         1.4         1.1         0.8         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3               0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.1                                               0.1                                            0.1                                                                            0.2                                                    0.2                                       0.3                                                     0.3                                       0.3                                                     0.4                                       0.7                                                     1.1                                        1.5                                                        1.7                                         1.7                                                                                   1.8                                                                                                    1.7                                                                                                                                                  1.5                                                                                                      1.4                                                                                                                                                 1.3                                                                                                    1.1                                                                                                      1.0               0.9                 0.8                 0.8         0.8           0.8         0.9          1.0         1.1         1.2         1.3         1.4         1.5         1.5         1.4         1.3         1.1         0.9         0.7         0.5         0.4               0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.1                                               0.1                                            0.1                                                                            0.2                                                    0.3                                       0.4                                                     0.4                                       0.5                                                     0.8                                       1.4                                                     1.9                                        2.2                                                        2.3                                         2.3                                                                                   2.2                                                                                                    2.0                                                                                                                                                  1.8                                                                                                      1.6                                                                                                                                                 1.4                                                                                                    1.2                                                                                                      1.0               0.9                 0.8                 0.7         0.7           0.7         0.7          0.8         0.9         1.0         1.1         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.1         0.9         0.7         0.6               0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PEDESTRIAN-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.1                                               0.1                                            0.2                                                                            0.3                                                    0.4                                       0.5                                                     0.6                                       0.8                                                     1.5                                       2.4                                                     3.1                                        3.3                                                        3.2                                         2.9                                                                                   2.7                                                                                                    2.4                                                                                                                                                  2.0                                                                                                      1.7                                                                                                                                                 1.5                                                                                                    1.2                                                                                                      1.0               0.8                 0.7                 0.6         0.5           0.6         0.6          0.7         0.8         0.8         0.9         0.9         1.0         1.0         0.9         0.9               0.7         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PEDESTRIAN-4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.1                                               0.1                                            0.2                                                                            0.3                                                    0.5                                       0.6                                                     0.9                                       1.7                                                     2.9                                       4.1                                                     4.8                                        4.9                                                        4.3                                         3.7                                                                                   3.2                                                                                                    2.7                                                                                                                                                  2.2                                                                                                      1.9                                                                                                                                                 1.5                                                                                                    1.2                                                                                                      1.0               0.8                 0.6                 0.5         0.5           0.5         0.5          0.5         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7               0.7         0.7         0.6         0.5         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PEDESTRIAN-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.1                                               0.1                                            0.2                                                                            0.4                                                    0.5                                       0.8                                                     1.6                                       3.0                                                     4.7                                       6.1                                                     6.5                                        6.2                                                        5.9                                         4.5                                                                                   3.6                                                                                                    2.9                                                                                                                                                  2.4                                                                                                      1.9                                                                                                                                                 1.5                                                                                                    1.2                                                                                                      0.9               0.7                 0.6                 0.4         0.4           0.4         0.4          0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.6               0.6         0.6         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.1                                               0.2                                            0.2                                                                            0.4                                                    0.6                                       1.3                                                     2.6                                       4.7                                                     6.8                                       8.4                                                     8.7                                        7.8                                                        6.8                                         5.2                                                                                   4.0                                                                                                    3.1                                                                                                                                                  2.5                                                                                                      1.9                                                                                                                                                 1.5                                                                                                    1.1                                                                                                      0.9               0.6                 0.5                 0.4         0.3           0.3         0.3          0.3         0.4               0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          # 18A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.1                                               0.2                                            0.2                                                                            0.5                                                    0.9                                       2.0                                                     3.9                                       6.3                                                     8.7                                       8.0                                                     10.5                                       9.1                                                        7.5                                         5.6                                                                                   4.2                                                                                                    3.2                                                                                                                                                  2.4                                                                                                      1.9                                                                                                                                                 1.4                                                                                                    1.0                                                                                                      0.7               0.5                 0.4                 0.3         0.3           0.2         0.3                0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                # 15A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   # 17A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.1                                               0.1                                            0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2          0.2         0.2          0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6                                                    1.4                                       2.8                                                     4.9                                       7.3                                                     9.7                                       11.2                                                    11.0                                       9.4                                                        7.6                                         5.6                                                                                   4.1                                                                                                    3.1                                                                                                                                                  2.3                                                                                                      1.7                                                                                                                                                 1.2                                                                                                    0.8                                                                                                      0.6               0.4                 0.3                 0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.1                                               0.2                                            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2                 0.1          0.1          0.2         0.2          0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.0                                                    1.9                                       3.4                                                     5.4                                       7.1                                                     9.0                                       10.2                                                    10.0                                       8.8                                                        6.9                                         5.2                                                                                   3.9                                                                                                    2.9                                                                                                                                                  2.1                                                                                                      1.5                                                                                                                                                 1.0                                                                                                    0.6                                                                                                      0.4               0.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           # 16A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.1                                               0.2                                            0.3                                                                            1.2                                                    2.2                                       3.5                                                     5.2                                       6.4                                                     7.6                                       8.3                                                     8.4                                        7.2                                                        5.7                                         4.5                                                                                   3.4                                                                                                    2.5                                                                                                                                                  1.8                                                                                                      1.2                                                                                                                                                 0.8                                                                                                    0.4                                                                                                            0.2               0.1                 0.1                 0.1          0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.1                                               0.3                                            0.5                                                                            1.4                                                    2.3                                       3.2                                                     4.3                                       5.5                                                     6.5                                       6.7                                                     6.3                                        5.6                                                        4.6                                         3.7                                                                                   2.8                                                                                                    2.1                                                                                                                                                  1.4                                                                                                      0.9                                                                                                                                                                         0.4                                                                                                                             0.2                                                           0.1               0.1                 0.1                 0.1          0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.2                                               0.4                                            0.7                                                                            1.5                                                    2.2                                       3.0                                                     3.6                                       4.3                                                     4.8                                       4.9                                                     4.7                                        4.3                                                        3.6                                         2.9                                                                                   2.3                                                                                                    1.6                                                                                                                                                                          0.9                                                                                                                                0.5                                                                                                                       0.2                                                                                                                             0.1                                                           0.1               0.1                 0.1                 0.1          0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2                                            0.3                                               0.5                                            0.8                                                                            1.5                                                    2.1                                       2.5                                                     3.1                                       3.5                                                     3.7                                       3.8                                                     3.6                                        3.2                                                        2.8                                         2.3                                                                                                           1.5                                                                                                                             0.9                                                                                                                         0.5                                                                                                                                0.2                                                                                                                       0.1                                                                                                                             0.1                                                           0.1               0.1                 0.1                 0.1          0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2                                            0.3                                               0.5                                            0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.0                                               1.5                                                                                         1.0                                                                                                                             0.5                                                                                                                         0.2                                                                                                                                0.1                                                                                                                       0.1                                                                                                                             0.1                                                           0.1               0.1                 0.0                 0.0          0.1          0.1         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SITE BOUNDARY EAST, SOUTH, WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.5                                                    1.9                                       2.2                                                     2.6                                       2.8                                                     3.0                                       2.9                                                     2.8                                        2.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BOONDOCKS FUN CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2                                            0.3                                               0.5                                            0.8                                                                            1.3                                                    1.6                                       1.9                                                     2.1                                       2.3                                                     2.4                                       2.3                                                     2.1                                                           1.8                                                 1.4                                               1.0                                                                                         0.6                                                                                                                             0.3                                                                                                                         0.1                                                                                                                                0.1                                                                                                                       0.1                                                                                                                             0.0                                                           0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0          0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2                                            0.3                                               0.5                                            0.8                                                                            1.2                                                    1.4                                       1.6                                                     1.7                                       1.9                                                     1.9                                                         1.8                                               1.6                                               1.3                                                 1.0                                               0.6                                                                                         0.3                                                                                                                             0.1                                                                                                                         0.1                                                                                                                                0.1                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                           0.0               0.0                 0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SITE BOUNDARY EAST, SOUTH, WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2                                            0.3                                               0.5                                            0.6                                                                            1.0                                                    1.2                                       1.3                                                     1.4                                                         1.5                                               1.4                                             1.3                                               1.1                                               0.9                                                 0.6                                               0.4                                                                                         0.2                                                                                                                             0.1                                                                                                                         0.1                                                                                                                                0.0                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                           0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SITE BOUNDARY EAST, SOUTH, WEST                                                                                 SITE BOUNDARY EAST, SOUTH, WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2                                            0.3                                               0.4                                            0.5                                                                            0.8                                                    0.9                                                         1.1                                               1.1                                             1.1                                               1.1                                             1.0                                               0.8                                               0.6                                                 0.4                                               0.2                                                                                         0.1                                                                                                                             0.1                                                                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                                0.0                                                                                                                       0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.2                                            0.2                                               0.3                                            0.4                                                                            0.6                                                                0.7                                             0.8                                               0.9                                             0.9                                               0.8                                             0.7                                               0.6                                               0.4                                                 0.2                                               0.1                                                                                         0.1                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       75 Southfork Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.2                                               0.3                                            0.3                                               0.4                                            0.5                                              0.6                                             0.6                                               0.7                                             0.6                                               0.6                                             0.5                                               0.4                                               0.3                                                 0.2                                               0.1                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.2                                               0.2                                            0.3                                               0.3                                            0.4                                              0.4                                             0.5                                               0.5                                             0.5                                               0.4                                             0.3                                               0.2                                               0.2                                                 0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.1                                               0.2                                            0.2                                               0.2                                            0.3                                              0.3                                             0.4                                               0.4                                             0.3                                               0.3                                             0.2                                               0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.1                                               0.1                                            0.1                                               0.2                                            0.2                                              0.2                                             0.3                                               0.3                                             0.2                                               0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.1                                               0.1                                            0.1                                               0.1                                            0.1                                              0.2                                             0.2                                               0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.1                                            0.1                                               0.1                                            0.1                                               0.1                                            0.1                                              0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                            0.1                                               0.1                                            0.1                                               0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                            0.0                                               0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAWN BY:                          DATE              PROJECT NO.

                           E1.2 - SITE PHOTOMETRICS NEW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E1.2 - CALCULATION KEYPLAN
                           SCALE: 1"=30'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CHECKED BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DATE               Q.A. BY:                            DATE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GENERAL NOTE: THIS KEYPLAN IS JUST A REFERENCE TO HELP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DISTINGUISH THE DIFFERENT CALCULATION ZONES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SITE
                           KEYED NOTES:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PHOTOMETRICS
                            #

                           1.
                                   SYMBOL USED FOR NOTE CALLOUT.

                                    EXISTING LIGHT FIXTURE TO REMAIN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NEW
                           2.       NEW LIGHT FIXTURE. RE: LIGHT FIXTURE SCHEDULE FOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NORTH
                                    MORE INFORMATION.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ISSUE:                              DRAWING NO.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SCALE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      As Noted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DATE:
If this sheet is not 30"
by 42" it is a reduced                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    K&A Architecture Inc. All rights reserved. No part of
print, scale accordingly                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              this document may be reproduced or utilized in any form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      without prior written authorization of K&A Architecture Inc.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            architecture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Project No. 21-314


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kiley & Associates Architecture, Inc.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        135 W. Dorothy Lane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Suite 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kettering, OH 45429
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        phone 937-294-3650
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fax 937-294-3653
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      info@kaarchitecture.com




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Donald P. Kiley, License #12432021-0331
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Expiration Date 05/31/24
                                                                              LL3                                                                                                    LL3                                                                                        LL3                                                                                           LL3                                           Architect Licensed in the following states:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OH, FL, TN, IL, IN, KY, MI, MN,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AZ, NJ, WV, VA, PA, MD, DE, ID, SC, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     The first Two (2) pages of this set of documents should contain a "red" seal with blue signature / date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      over the seal. The seal should be embossed in order to distinguish the documents as the "official"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      permit documents intended for permitting and construction. If the documents do not contain these
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          appropriate markings no permits should be issued nor should inspections be granted. K&A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Architecture should be notified immediately of any such deficiencies.




                                         E1.3 - NORTH
                                         SCALE: 1/4"=1'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NO.                             DESCRIPTION                                            DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REVISIONS
                           MATCHLINE         MATCHLINE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NO SUBCONTRACTOR SHOULD BE PROVIDED WITH A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PARTIAL SET OF PLANS FOR EITHER BIDDING OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES WITHOUT FIRST TAKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AMPLE TIME TO REVIEW A COMPLETE SET IN ORDER TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DETERMINE FOR THEMSELVES THE INFORMATION AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DOCUMENTATION THEY WISH TO HAVE COPIED. THERE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ARE MANY CROSS-REFERENCES IN A SET OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. ANY DISCREPANCIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROFESSIONAL FOR FORMAL CLARIFICATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SUBCONTRACTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR BIDDING AND
                             0.0       0.0                                                                                                                         0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONSTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE COMPLETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS, NOT SPECIFIC SHEETS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ONLY HAVING A PARTIAL SET OF DRAWINGS SHALL NOT
                             0.0       0.0                                                                                                                         0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BE ACCEPTED AS AN EXCUSE FOR DELAYS OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INCOMPLETE WORK.
                                             0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0                                                                                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0
                             0.0       0.0                                                                                                                         0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



                                             0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0         0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0                                                                                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0
                             0.0       0.0                                                                                                                         0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                                                                                                   PROJECT NAME:

                                             0.0     0.0   0.1   0.1    0.1         0.1    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1       0.0    0.0                                                                                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0
                             0.0       0.0                                                                                                                         0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



                                             0.0     0.0   0.2   0.3    0.4         0.4    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.4    0.3    0.2       0.1    0.1                                                                                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0
                             0.0       0.0                                                                                                                         0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



                                             0.0     0.0   0.5   1.5    2.0         2.2    2.2    2.3    2.3    2.2    2.2    2.1    1.8    0.9       0.3    0.1                                                                                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0
                             0.0       0.0                                                                                                                         0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



                                             0.0     0.0   2.0   73.6   83.4        82.4   83.5   82.8   83.2   81.5   83.3   83.2   81.8   14.8      0.6    0.2                                                                                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0
                             0.0       0.0                                                                                                                         0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                   LL1(X5)
                                             0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0                                                                                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0
                             0.0       0.0                                                                                                                         0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



                                             0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0    0.0    1.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0                                                                                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0
                             0.0       0.0
                                                                                                                LL2
                                                                                                                                                                   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LL2                                                                    BOONDOCKS FUN CENTER
                             0.0       0.0
                                             0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0    11.1   17.1   1.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.6   15.8   12.3     0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
                             0.0       0.0
                                             0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0         0.1    1.3    2.9    3.3    1.7    0.3    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   1.6   3.3    3.0      1.4   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          75 Southfork Dr.
                                             0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0         0.3    0.7    1.1    1.1    0.8    0.5    0.1    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0                                                                                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.4   0.8   1.1    1.1      0.7   0.4   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Draper, UT 84020
                             0.0       0.0                                                                                                                         0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



                                             0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0    0.1         0.2    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.4    0.3    0.2    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0                                                                                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.5    0.5      0.4   0.3   0.1   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0
                             0.0       0.0                                                                                                                         0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DRAWN BY:                          DATE              PROJECT NO.
                                             0.0     0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1         0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.1    0.0       0.0    0.0                                                                                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3    0.3      0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0         0.0   0.0
                             0.0       0.0                                                                                                                         0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



                                             0.0     0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1         0.1    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0       0.0    0.0                                                                                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2    0.2      0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0         0.0   0.0
                             0.0       0.0                                                                                                                         0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                                                                                                                                   CHECKED BY:                        DATE               Q.A. BY:                            DATE

                                             0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0    0.1         0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0       0.0    0.0                                                                                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1      0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHEET TITLE:
                             0.0       0.0                                                                                                                         0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PHOTOMETRICS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ELEVATIONS
                                         E1.3 - EAST A
                                         SCALE: 1/4"=1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ISSUE:                              DRAWING NO.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SCALE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         As Noted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DATE:
If this sheet is not 30"
by 42" it is a reduced                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              K&A Architecture Inc. All rights reserved. No part of
print, scale accordingly                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        this document may be reproduced or utilized in any form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                without prior written authorization of K&A Architecture Inc.




                           MATCHLINE         MATCHLINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MATCHLINE         MATCHLINE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      architecture
                              0.0      0.0




                              0.0      0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Project No. 21-314


                              0.0      0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kiley & Associates Architecture, Inc.

                              0.0      0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  135 W. Dorothy Lane
                              0.0      0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Suite 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0                                                                         Kettering, OH 45429
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  phone 937-294-3650
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    fax 937-294-3653
                              0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0                                                                                                                                                         0.0    0.0                                                         info@kaarchitecture.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0



                              0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.1     0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.1          0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0                                                                                                                                                         0.0    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0



                              0.0      0.0    0.0    0.1       0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.1     0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.1      0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.1          0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1      0.0        0.0   0.0                                                                                                                                                         0.0    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0



                              0.0      0.0    0.1    0.1       0.2    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.5    0.5     0.5     0.4    0.4    0.3    0.2     0.1      0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.5    0.5     0.4          0.4    0.4    0.3    0.2      0.1        0.1   0.0                                                                                                                                                         0.0    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0



                              0.0      0.0    0.1    0.4       1.2    1.9    2.1    2.2    2.2    2.2     2.2     2.1    2.1    1.8    1.1     0.4      0.2   0.2   0.5   1.4    1.9    2.1    2.2    2.2    2.2     2.2          2.2    2.1    1.8    1.0      0.3        0.1   0.0                                                                                                                                                         0.0    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0



                              0.0      0.0    0.2    1.2       55.8   79.6   80.0   79.8   80.5   80.0    78.2    80.2   80.3   79.5   34.4    0.8      0.3   0.3   1.5   66.6   79.3   80.4   80.2   80.8   81.0    79.6         81.4   80.4   80.2   21.5     0.6        0.2   0.1                                                                                                                                                         0.0    0.0                                Donald P. Kiley, License #12432021-0331
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0
                                                                                                                                              LL1(X5)                                                                                                         LL1(X5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Expiration Date 05/31/24
                              0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0                                                                                                                                                         0.0    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0                                             Architect Licensed in the following states:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OH, FL, TN, IL, IN, KY, MI, MN,
                              0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    733.3   0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    356.5   0.0          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AZ, NJ, WV, VA, PA, MD, DE, ID, SC, UT
                                                                                                            LL2                                                                                                       LL2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * * * WARNING * * *
                              0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    9.5    24.2    5.5     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    10.7   23.6    4.1          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0                                                                                                                                                         0.0    0.0                        The first Two (2) pages of this set of documents should contain a "red" seal with blue signature / date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0                                       over the seal. The seal should be embossed in order to distinguish the documents as the "official"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                permit documents intended for permitting and construction. If the documents do not contain these
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    appropriate markings no permits should be issued nor should inspections be granted. K&A
                              0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    1.1    3.0    4.3     2.6     0.7    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    1.3    3.2    4.3     2.5          0.6    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0                                                                                                                                                         0.0    0.0                                        Architecture should be notified immediately of any such deficiencies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0



                              0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.3    0.7    1.2    1.4     1.1     0.7    0.2    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.3    0.8    1.2    1.4     1.1          0.6    0.2    0.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0                                                                                                                                                         0.0    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0



                              0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.1    0.3    0.4    0.6    0.6     0.6     0.4    0.2    0.1    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.1    0.3    0.4    0.6    0.6     0.5          0.4    0.2    0.1    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0                                                                                                                                                         0.0    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0



                              0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.1    0.1    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3     0.3     0.2    0.2    0.1    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3     0.3          0.2    0.2    0.1    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0                                                                                                                                                         0.0    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0



                              0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.1    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2     0.2     0.2    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2     0.2          0.2    0.1    0.1    0.1      0.0        0.0   0.0                                                                                                                                                         0.0    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0



                              0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.1     0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.1          0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1      0.0        0.0   0.0                                                                                                                                                         0.0    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0     0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0     0.0       0.0




                                             E1.4 - EAST B
                                             SCALE: 1/4"=1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NO.                             DESCRIPTION                                            DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REVISIONS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MATCHLINE         MATCHLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NO SUBCONTRACTOR SHOULD BE PROVIDED WITH A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PARTIAL SET OF PLANS FOR EITHER BIDDING OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0                                         CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES WITHOUT FIRST TAKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AMPLE TIME TO REVIEW A COMPLETE SET IN ORDER TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DETERMINE FOR THEMSELVES THE INFORMATION AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0                                       DOCUMENTATION THEY WISH TO HAVE COPIED. THERE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ARE MANY CROSS-REFERENCES IN A SET OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. ANY DISCREPANCIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0                                      SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROFESSIONAL FOR FORMAL CLARIFICATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBCONTRACTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR BIDDING AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0                                       CONSTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE COMPLETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS, NOT SPECIFIC SHEETS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ONLY HAVING A PARTIAL SET OF DRAWINGS SHALL NOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0                                            BE ACCEPTED AS AN EXCUSE FOR DELAYS OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INCOMPLETE WORK.

                                              0.0        0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0




                                              0.0        0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.1          0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0                        PROJECT NAME:

                                              0.0        0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.1          0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1      0.1        0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0    0.1




                                              0.0        0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2    0.3    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.5     0.5          0.4    0.4    0.4    0.3      0.1        0.1   0.0   0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0    0.1    0.1




                                              0.0        0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.1   0.3   0.9    1.8    2.1    2.2    2.2    2.2     2.2          2.2    2.1    1.9    1.4      0.5        0.2   0.1   0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0    0.1    0.4




                                              0.0        0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.1   0.2   0.6   20.6   80.2   80.3   81.4   80.8   81.3    79.6         79.8   80.6   79.4   66.9     1.5        0.3   0.1   0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0    0.2    1.2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LL1(X5)
                                              0.0        0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0




                                              0.0        0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    157.5   0.0          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BOONDOCKS FUN CENTER
                                                                                                                  LL2                                                                                                       LL2
                                              0.0        0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    14.4    19.9    0.9    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.2    23.0    11.4         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0                         TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
                                              0.0        0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    1.7    3.6     4.1     2.1    0.3    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.5    2.4    4.2     3.3          1.4    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    75 Southfork Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RR1                                 RR1                                    RR1                                                                    Draper, UT 84020
                                              0.0        0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.4    0.8    1.3     1.4     1.0    0.6    0.1    0.0     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.2    0.6    1.1    1.4     1.3          0.8    0.4    0.0    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0           0.0   0.0   0.1           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.1    0.0     0.0   0.0         0.1   0.1         0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0




                                              0.0        0.0   0.0    0.0    0.2    0.3    0.5    0.6     0.6     0.5    0.3    0.2    0.1     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.1    0.2    0.4    0.5    0.6     0.6          0.4    0.3    0.1    0.0      0.0        0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0           0.5   6.3   7.2           0.8   0.0         3.1   9.6    3.0     0.0   0.6         6.7   6.7         0.6        0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DRAWN BY:                          DATE              PROJECT NO.
                                              0.0        0.0   0.0    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.3    0.3     0.3     0.3    0.2    0.2    0.1     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3     0.3          0.3    0.2    0.1    0.1      0.0        0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0           1.3   4.4   4.6           1.6   1.0         3.0   5.1    2.9     1.0   1.5         4.5   4.5         1.4        0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0




                                              0.0        0.0   0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.2     0.2     0.2    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.1      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2     0.2          0.2    0.1    0.1    0.1      0.0        0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0           1.2   2.2   2.3           1.6   1.2         1.9   2.4    1.9     1.2   1.5         2.2   2.2         1.3        0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHECKED BY:                        DATE               Q.A. BY:                            DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SITE
                                              0.0        0.0   0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.1     0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1     0.1          0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1      0.0        0.0   0.0   0.0     0.0           0.8   1.2   1.3           1.1   1.1         1.2   1.3    1.2     1.1   1.1         1.3   1.2         0.9        0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PHOTOMETRICS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ELEVATIONS
                                             E1.4 - EAST C
                                             SCALE: 1/4"=1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ISSUE:                              DRAWING NO.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SCALE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   As Noted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DATE:
If this sheet is not 30"
by 42" it is a reduced                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      K&A Architecture Inc. All rights reserved. No part of
print, scale accordingly                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                this document may be reproduced or utilized in any form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        without prior written authorization of K&A Architecture Inc.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              architecture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Project No. 21-314


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kiley & Associates Architecture, Inc.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          135 W. Dorothy Lane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Suite 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kettering, OH 45429
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          phone 937-294-3650
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            fax 937-294-3653
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        info@kaarchitecture.com




     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0




     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0




     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Donald P. Kiley, License #12432021-0331
     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Expiration Date 05/31/24

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Architect Licensed in the following states:
     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OH, FL, TN, IL, IN, KY, MI, MN,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AZ, NJ, WV, VA, PA, MD, DE, ID, SC, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       The first Two (2) pages of this set of documents should contain a "red" seal with blue signature / date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        over the seal. The seal should be embossed in order to distinguish the documents as the "official"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                         permit documents intended for permitting and construction. If the documents do not contain these
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            appropriate markings no permits should be issued nor should inspections be granted. K&A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Architecture should be notified immediately of any such deficiencies.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LL2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   26.8   43.4   4.6    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   4.0   9.0    11.2   6.5    1.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   1.1   2.4   3.7    4.2    3.1    1.8   0.5   0.0   0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.4   0.9   1.3   1.8    1.9    1.6    1.1   0.7   0.2   0.0   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.4   0.6   0.8   1.0    1.1    0.9    0.7   0.5   0.3   0.1   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0   0.0   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.6    0.6    0.6    0.5   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4    0.4    0.4    0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.1




                                                                           E1.5 - SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NO.                             DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DATE


                                                                           SCALE: 1/4"=1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NO SUBCONTRACTOR SHOULD BE PROVIDED WITH A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARTIAL SET OF PLANS FOR EITHER BIDDING OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES WITHOUT FIRST TAKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AMPLE TIME TO REVIEW A COMPLETE SET IN ORDER TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DETERMINE FOR THEMSELVES THE INFORMATION AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DOCUMENTATION THEY WISH TO HAVE COPIED. THERE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ARE MANY CROSS-REFERENCES IN A SET OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. ANY DISCREPANCIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE DESIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROFESSIONAL FOR FORMAL CLARIFICATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SUBCONTRACTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR BIDDING AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE COMPLETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS, NOT SPECIFIC SHEETS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ONLY HAVING A PARTIAL SET OF DRAWINGS SHALL NOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BE ACCEPTED AS AN EXCUSE FOR DELAYS OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INCOMPLETE WORK.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROJECT NAME:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BOONDOCKS FUN CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            75 Southfork Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Draper, UT 84020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAWN BY:                          DATE              PROJECT NO.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHECKED BY:                        DATE               Q.A. BY:                            DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PHOTOMETRICS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ELEVATIONS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ISSUE:                              DRAWING NO.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           As Noted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DATE:
If this sheet is not 30"
by 42" it is a reduced                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       K&A Architecture Inc. All rights reserved. No part of
print, scale accordingly                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 this document may be reproduced or utilized in any form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         without prior written authorization of K&A Architecture Inc.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0                                       0.0                                                   0.1                                       0.1                                                   0.1                                             0.1                                                               0.1                                                   0.1                                                    0.1                                       0.2                                                    0.2                                       0.3                                                     0.3                                       0.4                                                     0.5                                       0.5                                                     0.5                                        0.4                                                        0.3                                         0.3                                                                                   0.2                                                                                                    0.2                                                                                                                                                  0.2                                                                                                     0.1                                                                                                                                               0.1                                                                                                    0.1                                                                                                      0.1               0.1                 0.1                 0.1         0.1           0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               architecture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2                                       0.2                                                   0.3                                       0.4                                                   0.6                                             0.8                                                               1.0                                                   1.2                                                    1.5                                       2.0                                                    2.6                                       3.4                                                     4.5                                       5.4                                                     6.1                                       6.3                                                     6.1                                        5.3                                                        4.4                                         3.4                                                                                   2.6                                                                                                    2.0                                                                                                                                                  1.6                                                                                                     1.3                                                                                                                                               1.0                                                                                                    0.8                                                                                                      0.7               0.6                 0.4                 0.3         0.3           0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2                                       0.3                                                   0.4                                       0.6                                                   0.8                                             1.0                                                               1.3                                                   1.6                                                    2.0                                       2.6                                                    3.4                                       4.6                                                     5.9                                       7.4                                                     8.7                                       4.6                                                     8.7                                        7.3                                                        5.8                                         4.6                                                                                   3.3                                                                                                    2.5                                                                                                                                                  2.0                                                                                                     1.6                                                                                                                                               1.3                                                                                                    1.1                                                                                                      0.9               0.7                 0.6                 0.4         0.3           0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2                                       0.3                                                   0.5                                       0.7                                                   0.9                                             1.2                                                               1.5                                                   1.9                                                    2.3                                       3.0                                                    3.9                                       5.4                                                     6.6                                       8.5                                                     10.4                                      11.3                                                    10.5                                       8.6                                                        6.6                                         5.5                                                                                   3.8                                                                                                    2.9                                                                                                                                                  2.3                                                                                                     1.9                                                                                                                                               1.5                                                                                                    1.2                                                                                                      1.0               0.8                 0.6                 0.5         0.4           0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Project No. 21-314
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                                       0.4                                                   0.5                                       0.7                                                   1.0                                             1.3                                                               1.6                                                   2.0                                                    2.5                                       3.2                                                    4.0                                       5.3                                                     7.0                                       8.5                                                     10.2                                      11.0                                                    10.3                                       8.6                                                        6.8                                         5.4                                                                                   3.9                                                                                                    3.1                                                                                                                                                  2.5                                                                                                     2.0                                                                                                                                               1.6                                                                                                    1.3                                                                                                      1.1               0.8                 0.7                 0.5         0.4           0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                                       0.4                                                   0.5                                       0.7                                                   1.0                                             1.3                                                               1.6                                                   2.0                                                    2.5                                       3.1                                                    3.9                                       4.9                                                     6.3                                       7.8                                                     9.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1            9.5                                                     9.0                                        7.8                                                        6.3                                         4.9                                                                                   3.8                                                                                                    3.0                                                                                                                                                  2.4                                                                                                     2.0                                                                                                                                               1.7                                                                                                    1.4                                                                                                      1.1               0.9                 0.7                 0.5         0.4           0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                                       0.4                                                   0.6                                       0.7                                                   1.0                                             1.2                                                               1.5                                                   1.9                                                    2.3                                       2.9                                                    3.5                                       4.2                                                     5.1                                       6.2                                                     7.2                                       7.4                                                     7.2                                        6.2                                                        5.1                                         4.2                                                                                   3.4                                                                                                    2.8                                                                                                                                                  2.3                                                                                                     1.9                                                                                                                                               1.6                                                                                                    1.3                                                                                                      1.1               0.8                 0.7                 0.5         0.4           0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                                       0.4                                                   0.5                                       0.7                                                   0.9                                             1.1                                                               1.4                                                   1.7                                                    2.1                                       2.5                                                    3.0                                       3.5                                                     4.1                                       4.7                                                     5.3                                       5.4                                                     5.3                                        4.7                                                        4.1                                         3.4                                                                                   2.9                                                                                                    2.4                                                                                                                                                  2.1                                                                                                     1.7                                                                                                                                               1.4                                                                                                    1.2                                                                                                      1.0               0.8                 0.6                 0.5         0.4           0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kiley & Associates Architecture, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                                       0.4                                                   0.5                                       0.6                                                   0.8                                             1.0                                                               1.2                                                   1.5                                                    1.8                                       2.1                                                    2.4                                       2.8                                                     3.2                                       3.6                                                     3.9                                       3.9                                                     3.9                                        3.6                                                        3.2                                         2.7                                                                                   2.4                                                                                                    2.0                                                                                                                                                  1.7                                                                                                     1.5                                                                                                                                               1.3                                                                                                    1.1                                                                                                      0.9               0.7                 0.6                 0.5         0.4           0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2                                       0.3                                                   0.4                                       0.6                                                   0.7                                             0.8                                                               1.0                                                   1.2                                                    1.4                                       1.6                                                    1.9                                       2.1                                                     2.4                                       2.6                                                     2.8                                       2.8                                                     2.8                                        2.6                                                        2.4                                         2.1                                                                                   1.9                                                                                                    1.6                                                                                                                                                  1.4                                                                                                     1.2                                                                                                                                               1.0                                                                                                    0.9                                                                                                      0.8               0.6                 0.5                 0.4         0.3           0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2                                       0.3                                                   0.4                                       0.5                                                   0.5                                             0.6                                                               0.7                                                   0.9                                                    1.0                                       1.2                                                    1.3                                       1.5                                                     1.7                                       1.8                                                     1.9                                       1.9                                                     1.9                                        1.8                                                        1.7                                         1.5                                                                                   1.3                                                                                                    1.2                                                                                                                                                  1.1                                                                                                     0.9                                                                                                                                               0.8                                                                                                    0.7                                                                                                      0.6               0.5                 0.5                 0.4         0.3           0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2                                       0.2                                                   0.3                                       0.3                                                   0.4                                             0.5                                                               0.5                                                   0.6                                                    0.7                                       0.7                                                    0.8                                       0.9                                                     1.0                                       1.0                                                     1.1                                       1.1                                                     1.1                                        1.1                                                        1.0                                         1.0                                                                                   0.9                                                                                                    0.8                                                                                                                                                  0.7                                                                                                     0.7                                                                                                                                               0.6                                                                                                    0.5                                                                                                      0.4               0.4                 0.3                 0.3         0.3           0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1                                       0.2                                                   0.2                                       0.2                                                   0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4   0.4                                                    0.4                                       0.4                                                    0.4                                       0.5                                                     0.5                                       0.5                                                     0.5                                       0.4                                                     0.5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4                                     0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3                                                                                                 0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.3                                                                                                 0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.3                 0.3                 0.2         0.2           0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               135 W. Dorothy Lane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Suite 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.2                     0.2                     0.3                     0.3                     0.3                     0.3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2           0.2               0.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.2         0.2           0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.1               0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kettering, OH 45429
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.2         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           phone 937-294-3650
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.0 0.0           0.1           0.2         0.3         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             fax 937-294-3653
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.2         0.3         0.4         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.9         0.9         0.8         0.8         0.6         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         info@kaarchitecture.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.2         0.3         0.5         0.6         0.8         0.9         1.0         1.1         1.1         1.1         1.0         0.8         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.2         0.4         0.6         0.8         1.0         1.2         1.3         1.4         1.5         1.4         1.3         1.0         0.8         0.5         0.3         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.1 0.1           0.1           0.3         0.4         0.7         0.9         1.2         1.4         1.6         1.8         1.8         1.8         1.6         1.3         0.9         0.6         0.3         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.2         0.5         0.7         1.1         1.4         1.7         2.0         2.2         2.3         2.2         2.0         1.6         1.2         0.7         0.4         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0               0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.2         0.5         0.8         1.2         1.7         2.0         2.4         2.7         2.8         2.7         2.5         2.1         1.5         0.9         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0               0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.2         0.5         0.9         1.4         1.9         2.4         2.9         3.3         3.5         3.5         3.3         2.7         2.0         1.1         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0               0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0               0.0 0.0           0.1           0.3         0.6         1.0         1.6         2.2         2.8         3.4         4.0         4.4         4.5         4.3         3.6         2.5         1.4         0.6         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0               0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.3         0.6         1.1         1.8         2.5         3.2         4.0         4.9         5.7         6.4         6.1         5.0         3.3         1.8         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0               0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.2         0.6         1.2         2.0         2.8         3.7         4.8         6.1         7.4         7.6         7.2         6.0         4.1         2.1         0.9         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0               0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.3         0.7         1.3         2.2         3.0         4.1         5.5         7.3         8.8         9.5         9.1         7.3         4.8         2.4         1.0         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0               0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.0 0.0           0.1           0.2         0.7         1.4         2.2         3.2         4.4         6.0         8.1         9.9         11.0        10.5        8.1         5.3         2.7         1.1         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.2         0.7         1.4         2.2         3.2         4.4         6.0         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.2         10.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL1   11.1        8.0         8.1         5.3         2.7         1.1         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.3         0.7         1.4         2.2         3.1         4.2         5.6         7.5         8.9         9.8         9.3         7.3         4.9         2.5         1.1         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.3         0.7         1.3         2.0         2.8         3.7         4.9         6.3         7.5         7.8         7.4         6.1         4.2         2.2         0.9         0.5         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.0 0.0           0.1           0.3         0.7         1.2         1.8         2.5         3.2         4.1         5.0         6.0         6.3         5.7         4.9         3.4         1.9         0.8         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Donald P. Kiley, License #12432021-0331
                                                 # 9B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.3         0.6         1.1         1.6         2.2         2.8         3.4         4.0         4.5         4.7         4.4         3.6         2.6         1.5         0.7         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Expiration Date 05/31/24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.3         0.6         1.0         1.4         1.9         2.4         2.8         3.2         3.5         3.5         3.2         2.7         2.0         1.2         0.6         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0               0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Architect Licensed in the following states:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.3         0.5         0.9         1.3         1.7         2.0         2.4         2.6         2.8         2.7         2.5         2.1         1.6         1.0         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0               0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0               0.1 0.1           0.2           0.3         0.5         0.8         1.1         1.4         1.7         2.0         2.2         2.3         2.2         2.0         1.7         1.3         0.8         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                           # 10 B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0               0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.2           0.3         0.5         0.7         1.0         1.2         1.5         1.7         1.8         1.9         1.8         1.6         1.4         1.0         0.7         0.4         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OH, FL, TN, IL, IN, KY, MI, MN,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0               0.1




                                  # 8B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0               0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.2           0.3         0.4         0.6         0.8         1.0         1.2         1.4         1.5         1.5         1.5         1.4         1.1         0.9         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AZ, NJ, WV, VA, PA, MD, DE, ID, SC, UT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.2         0.4         0.5         0.7         0.9         1.0         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.1         0.9         0.7         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0               0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1 0.1           0.1           0.2         0.3         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.8         0.9         1.0         1.0         1.0         0.9         0.8         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0               0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.2         0.3         0.4         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.7         0.6         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            The first Two (2) pages of this set of documents should contain a "red" seal with blue signature / date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.2         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         over the seal. The seal should be embossed in order to distinguish the documents as the "official"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         permit documents intended for permitting and construction. If the documents do not contain these
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.2         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             appropriate markings no permits should be issued nor should inspections be granted. K&A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0               0.1 0.1           0.1           0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GENERAL NOTE: ALL CALCULATIONS ARE FOR AFTER BUSINESS HOURS.                                                                                                                                                                                Architecture should be notified immediately of any such deficiencies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0



                                         # 11B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0                     0.1         0.1           0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                           # 7B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.1         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.1         0.2         0.3         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0                     0.0         0.1           0.1         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.2         0.3         0.4         0.5         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.8         0.8         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0           0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.2         0.3         0.5         0.6         0.8         0.9         0.9         1.0         1.0         1.0         0.9         0.8         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                             # 17B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0           0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0               0.1    0.1         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4         0.5         0.7         0.9         1.1         1.2         1.3         1.3         1.3         1.2         1.0         0.7         0.4         0.3         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0           0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0               0.1    0.1         0.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4         0.6         0.8         1.1         1.3         1.5         1.6         1.7         1.6         1.5         1.2         0.9         0.6         0.3         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.1               0.1    0.1         0.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5         0.7         1.0         1.3         1.6         1.8         2.0         2.1         2.0         1.9         1.5         1.1         0.7         0.3         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0               0.1    0.1         0.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0           0.0

                                           # 12B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0               0.1    0.1         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5         0.8         1.2         1.6         1.9         2.2         2.4         2.6         2.5         2.3         1.9         1.4         0.8         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0           0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0               0.1    0.1         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5         0.9         1.3         1.8         2.3         2.7         3.0         3.2         3.2         3.0         2.5         1.8         1.0         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0           0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0               0.1    0.1         0.2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5         1.0         1.5         2.1         2.6         3.2         3.7         4.0         4.1         3.8         3.2         2.3         1.3         0.6         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.3         0.6         1.1         1.7         2.4         3.0         3.8         4.5         5.1         5.5         5.3         4.3         3.0         1.6         0.7         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0



                                    # 6B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.2         0.6         1.2         1.9         2.7         3.5         4.5         5.6         6.8         6.9         6.5         5.6         3.8         1.9         0.8         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.3         0.6         1.3         2.1         2.9         4.0         5.3         6.8         8.2         8.7         8.3         6.8         4.6         2.3         0.9         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0


                                                                                                                            # 16B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                             0.0         0.1           0.2         0.7         1.4         2.2         3.1         4.3         5.9         7.9         9.5         10.5        10.1        7.8         5.1         2.6         1.1         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.2         0.6         1.4         2.2         3.2         4.4         6.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.2         10.1        11.3        5.4         8.2         5.3         2.7         1.1         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0



                                                                                                                                         # 18B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.3         0.7         1.4         2.2         3.1         4.3         5.9         7.9         9.4         10.5        10.0        7.7         5.1         2.6         1.1         0.6         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0         0.1           0.3         0.7         1.3         2.1         2.9         3.9         5.2         6.8         8.0         8.6         8.2         6.6         4.5         2.4         1.0         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0                             0.0         0.1           0.3         0.7         1.2         1.9         2.6         3.4         4.4         5.5         6.7         6.7         6.3         5.3         3.8         2.0         0.9         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.3         0.6         1.1         1.7         2.3         3.0         3.7         4.4         5.0         5.5         5.1         4.2         2.9         1.7         0.7         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.3         0.6         1.0         1.5         2.0         2.5         3.0         3.5         3.8         3.9         3.6         3.1         2.2         1.3         0.7         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                     # 14B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.1           0.3         0.5         0.9         1.3         1.8         2.2         2.5         2.9         3.0         3.0         2.8         2.3         1.8         1.1         0.5         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0


                                                     # 13B                                                                  # 15B
                                # 5B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0                             0.1         0.1           0.3         0.5         0.8         1.2         1.5         1.8         2.1         2.3         2.5         2.4         2.2         1.8         1.4         0.9         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NO.                             DESCRIPTION                                            DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.2           0.3         0.5         0.8         1.0         1.3         1.6         1.8         1.9         2.0         1.9         1.8         1.5         1.1         0.8         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                 0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                   0.0                                                                                               0.0                                                                                       0.0             0.0           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1         0.2           0.3         0.5         0.7         0.9         1.1         1.3         1.5         1.6         1.7         1.6         1.5         1.2         0.9         0.6         0.4         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                    # 4B
                                                                                                       # 3B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SITE BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.1           0.2         0.3         0.4         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.8         0.9         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.7         0.5         0.4         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NORTH


                                                                                                                     # 2A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.1         0.1           0.2         0.3         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.6         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.6         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.1         0.1           0.2         0.2         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.4         0.4         0.3         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                               SITE BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                                      # 1B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NORTH


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SITE BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * * * WARNING * * *
                                                                                                              # 2B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NO SUBCONTRACTOR SHOULD BE PROVIDED WITH A
                                                                    # 3A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.1           0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                   # 18A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.1           0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                                                BUILDING ENTRANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARTIAL SET OF PLANS FOR EITHER BIDDING OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PEDESTRIAN-1                PEDESTRIAN-1

                                                                                                                                                                                           # 15A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AFTER HOURS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES WITHOUT FIRST TAKING
                                                 A                                                                                               # 1A
                                                                                                                                                                        # 12A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AMPLE TIME TO REVIEW A COMPLETE SET IN ORDER TO
                                            #4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                       # 6A                                                                                                                # 17A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PEDESTRIAN-2

                                                                                                                               # 9A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DETERMINE FOR THEMSELVES THE INFORMATION AND
                                                                                                                     # 7A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                        # 10A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DOCUMENTATION THEY WISH TO HAVE COPIED. THERE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ARE MANY CROSS-REFERENCES IN A SET OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS. ANY DISCREPANCIES
                                                                                                                            # 9A                                                                                   # 16A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHOULD BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE DESIGN
                                                                                              # 8A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                             # 5A                                                                                               # 11A      # 13A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROFESSIONAL FOR FORMAL CLARIFICATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                   # 14A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SUBCONTRACTORS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR BIDDING AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CONSTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE COMPLETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS, NOT SPECIFIC SHEETS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SITE BOUNDARY EAST, SOUTH, WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ONLY HAVING A PARTIAL SET OF DRAWINGS SHALL NOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                SITE BOUNDARY EAST, SOUTH, WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BE ACCEPTED AS AN EXCUSE FOR DELAYS OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INCOMPLETE WORK.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PEDESTRIAN-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PEDESTRIAN-3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT NAME:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GENERAL SITE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                    PEDESTRIAN-3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PEDESTRIAN-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PEDESTRIAN-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PEDESTRIAN-4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PEDESTRIAN-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   # 18A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         # 15A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            # 17A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0                0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                      0.0               0.0                       0.0                 0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    # 16A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                            0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                           0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                   0.0                                                                                                    0.0                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                           0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                         0.0                                                                                                           0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                           0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0                                               0.0                                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                           0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SITE BOUNDARY EAST, SOUTH, WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                        0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BOONDOCKS FUN CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                                           0.0                                                 0.0                                               0.0                                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                           0.0               0.0                 0.0                 0.0          0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                                         0.0                                               0.0                                               0.0                                                 0.0                                               0.0                                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                           0.0               0.0                 0.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SITE BOUNDARY EAST, SOUTH, WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                       0.0                                                     0.0                                                         0.0                                               0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0                                               0.0                                                 0.0                                               0.0                                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                           0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SITE BOUNDARY EAST, SOUTH, WEST                                                                                 SITE BOUNDARY EAST, SOUTH, WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                    0.0                                                         0.0                                               0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0                                               0.0                                                 0.0                                               0.0                                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                       0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                                                            0.0                                                                0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0                                               0.0                                                 0.0                                               0.0                                                                                         0.0                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             75 Southfork Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                               0.0                                            0.0                                              0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0                                               0.0                                                 0.0                                               0.0                                                                                         0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                               0.0                                            0.0                                              0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0                                               0.0                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Draper, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                               0.0                                            0.0                                              0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                               0.0                                            0.0                                              0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                               0.0                                            0.0                                              0.0                                             0.0                                               0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                               0.0                                            0.0                                              0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0                                                        0.0                                               0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                    0.0                                                        0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAWN BY:                          DATE              PROJECT NO.

                           E1.6 - SITE PHOTOMETRICS NEW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E1.2 - CALCULATION KEYPLAN
                           SCALE: 1"=30'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHECKED BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DATE               Q.A. BY:                            DATE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GENERAL NOTE: THIS KEYPLAN IS JUST A REFERENCE TO HELP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DISTINGUISH THE DIFFERENT CALCULATION ZONES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SITE
                           KEYED NOTES:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PHOTOMETRICS
                            #

                           1.
                                   SYMBOL USED FOR NOTE CALLOUT.

                                    EXISTING LIGHT FIXTURE TO REMAIN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AFTER HOURS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ISSUE:                              DRAWING NO.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E1.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SCALE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            As Noted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DATE:
        EXHIBIT K
DEVIATION REQUEST LETTER
                                        February 15, 2022




                                        City of Draper
                                        Community Development
                                        Todd Draper
                                        1020 e. Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                        Todd.draper@draperutah.gov


                                        RE:     Boondocks Addition
Kiley & Associates Architecture, Inc.                 75 E. Southfork Dr
135 W. Dorothy Lane, Suite 200
                                                      SPR-0148-2021
Kettering, OH 45429

phone: 937-294-3650
                                        Todd;
fax: 937-294-3653

info@kaarchitecture.com                 In reference to the above mentioned project and in response to comments in your
                                        review letter please note the following:

                                        We respectfully request a deviation from DCMC Sections:

                                        Exterior Elevations:

                                        9-22-040 (C) (2); 9-22-040 (D) 2(2); 9-22-040(F)

                                        Deviations criteria are as follows:
                                        9-22-030;

                                        In order to be granted a deviation a building design needs to meet at least three of
                                        the noted criteria. This project has met at least three of the criteria:

                                        B (6); The existing building is tilt up concrete construction with minimal
                                        architectural detailing and character. The intent of this project is to expand the
                                        building using the same structural elements, but to enhance the character of the
                                        building in order address the design and material requirements of the current
                                        code. The existing facility has fairly plain painted concrete sections of walls.
                                        The proposed design develops this sections of walls by accenting horizontal and
                                        vertical score lines, architectural features and shapes and the use of color to
                                        transition these concrete panels into architecturally pleasing concrete panels.
                                        This is demonstrated in the before and after photos below:



                                        2/15/2022                                                                  1 of 3
Existing




Proposed


B (7); The existing nonconforming building is being enhanced architecturally and
being brought more into compliance with the intent of the code. The existing
structure does not meet the current code requirements in several areas as noted,
so the renovation work is intended to update the current facility and add more
architectural enhancements such as vibrant modern colors, fenestration of the
roof line to provide depth and additional shadow lines, horizontal architectural
features to reduce the overall scale of the building, metal panels with vertical
variations in colors and patterns to break up the horizontal nature of the building,
and complement the existing architectural style while also incorporating new
design elements to provide better compliance with the current code and also
mesh well with the massing and material of the existing building.

B(9); The building is designed by a licensed architect in a specific modern
architectural style while utilizing materials required. The introduction of colored
metal panels in a vertical design to the façade has enabled us to break up the
large horizontal nature of the structure while also adding a required material to
the façade. This design of various vertical patterns and colors allowed the design
to add even more colors and design elements.



2/15/2022                                                                  2 of 3
B(10); One of the approved primary materials is architectural precast concrete.
Exposed concrete on tilt up panels is not an approved primary material. We also
want to include that due to the amount of fenestrations, scoring and other
architectural details that we have added to these panels that they are
architecturally the same finish look as precast concrete.

Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any questions pertaining
to this project.

Sincerely,



Donald P. Kiley AIA, NCARB, MPE
President
K&A Architecture, Inc.




2/15/2022                                                              3 of 3
