MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, JUNE 23, 2022 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PRESENT:                       Chairperson Andrew Adams, Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker
                               Commissioners Gary Ogden, Mary Squire Alternate
                               Commissioners Susan Nixon, Kendra Shirey and Tab Bingham

ABSENT:                        Commissioners Lisa Fowler, Alternate Commissioner DeLaina
                               Tonks

STAFF PRESENT:                 Amie Salazar, Fred Aegerter, Mike Barker, Brien Maxfield,
                               Spencer DuShane, Maryann Pickering, Todd Draper, and Jonathan
                               Concidine

6:30 PM Business Meeting:

Chairperson Andrew Adams welcomed City Planner Jonathan Concidine and Alternate
Commission Member Kendra Shirey as new participants in the meeting.

1.     Public Hearing: Hohl Office Building Site Plan (Administrative Action)

On the request of Keith Hansen, representing Justin Hohl, a request approval of a site plan for
the purpose of constructing a new office and retail building, with three deviations: 1) increased
building height, 2) tree diamonds in parking lot area, and 3) reduction in landscaping and rooftop
landscaping to meet minimum requirements in CC zoning district. The property is located at
approximately 11488 South State Street. Application SPR-044-2021. Staff contact: Maryann
Pickering, 801.576.6391, maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Maryann Pickering, City Planner, provided an overview of the request noting that the land use
and zoning for the site was Community Commercial. She explained that the applicant was
constructing a new commercial building in the zone and was requesting a height deviation. She
noted that the original request was submitted in March 2021 which was before changes to the
code were made. She shared plans for the building which include mainly office use with some
retail, surface parking, loading docks for the retail use, and cross access with the property to the
north.

Ms. Pickering reviewed the three deviation requests. She indicated the first deviation was for tree
diamonds which were needed due to site constraints and truck access. She noted the site
exceeded minimum parking by 9 stalls. She explained the second deviation was to allow for
4.4% of the required area to be installed as landscaping to be located in a roof top garden near
the rear of the building. She shared that the landscaping deviation was also needed to
accommodate truck access and maneuvering. She added that a height deviation was the third
deviation requested. She indicated that the applicant met the minimum three criteria in ordinance
for consideration and approval of the deviations including increased pedestrian and bike
connectivity, different exterior materials than what is required, and an increase in primary
materials on the elevations.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 23, 2022
Page 2

Ms. Pickering explained that due to the location of the loading dock the driveway had to be
larger to allow trucks to easily enter the site. She noted that the applicant had worked with Utah
Department of Transportation (UDOT) and any additional questions could be directed to Brien
Maxfield.

Ms. Pickering presented the landscape plan which included the rooftop garden. She stated that
the applicant indicated the roof top garden would be accessible to all who utilized the office and
retail space.

Ms. Pickering provided elevation drawings and renderings of the building. She clarified that
current regulations were for a 45-foot height limit and the applicant was proposing a building
height ranging from 62 feet at its highest point due to elevation changes and 35 feet at the lowest
part where the rooftop garden would be located.

Ms. Pickering indicated that the only public comment she received was a neighbor desiring to
see the staff report.

Commissioner Craig Hawker asked if there was enough room for large 18-wheel trucks to turn in
without having to stop and back in off of State Street.

Brien Maxfield, City Engineer, replied that the exhibit showed that there was turn around room
at the back of the building which would allow trucks to pull in safely and back up to the loading
docks without needing to block traffic.

Commissioner Susan Nixon asked what was usually done in the landscape wells.

Ms. Pickering clarified that trees were required in the parking lot but were usually done in a
landscaping row rather than in tree diamonds.

Commissioner Susan Nixon asked if they could approve the site plan without one of the
deviations.

Ms. Pickering replied that the applicant needed the three deviations in order to make the site
work.

Keith Hansen, Applicant, stated that Trent Eyre with Lighting Design would be occupying the
retail portion of the building. He noted that they have been working on the site plan for over a
year to make everything work including truck maneuvering at the rear of the building.

Mr. Hansen explained that they have more parking than needed and less landscaping because
even if they were to fill the extra nine spaces with landscape it would not meet the required 20%.
He indicated that due to the medical office nature of the project also warranted extra parking
which is why they decided to go with that option.




                                                 2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 23, 2022
Page 3
Mr. Hansen explained that if they did not use tree diamonds, they would have to use five feet of
landscaping in between parking rows. He noted this would push the building to the west and
would lose turn around space for trucks.

Mr. Hansen remarked that they were on a sloped site which created difficulties regarding the
height of the building. He pointed out that the lot dropped down from where State Street sits
which makes the building appear shorter than the actual height. He indicated that in order to
make the building feasible as a medical office building, they needed an extra level which put
them over the 45-foot height limit.

Mr. Hansen indicated they had plans to make the loading dock look nice and noted that all of
their exterior materials were primary materials to add to the aesthetic of the building since it was
to be used as medical offices and a show place for Lighting Design.

Chairperson Andrew Adams opened the meeting up for public comments on the agenda item. No
comments were offered and the public hearing was closed.

Chairperson Andrew Adams asked what happens if the trees were removed from the tree
diamons or there were no trees in the tree diamonds if they would be able to be replaced.

Ms. Pickering indicated that trees were required and replacement of the trees was enforceable but
that code enforcement typically worked on a complaint basis. She stated that if someone were to
complain we could enforce.

Commissioner Susan Nixon inquired if it would be better to simply eliminate the tree diamonds
and possibly add some of that square footage to the landscape strips to the north and south.

Ms. Pickering indicated that she did not know the answer to that question but noted that code
required trees in the parking area.

Commissioner Mary Squire asked what the height maximum was for the zone to the north of this
property.

Ms. Pickering replied that it was 55 feet.

Motion: Commissioner Gary Ogden motioned to approve the deviation for parking
diamonds as requested by Keith Hansen of AE Urbia, representing Justin Hohl,
Application SPR-044-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
staff report dated June 14, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Mary Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Squire, Hawker, Nixon, and Bingham voted, “Aye”.


                                                 3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 23, 2022
Page 4

Motion: Commissioner Susan Nixon motioned to approve the deviation for landscaping
modification as requested by Keith Hansen of AE Urbia, representing Justin Hohl,
Application SPR-044-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
staff report dated June 14, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Tab Bingham

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Squire, Hawker, Nixon, and Bingham voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Tab Bingham motioned to approve the deviation request for
increased height as requested by Keith Hansen of AE Urbia, representing Justin Hohl,
Application SPR-044-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
staff report dated June 14, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Susan Nixon

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Squire, Hawker, Nixon, and Bingham voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Craig Hawker motioned to approve the site plan as requested by
Keith Hansen of AE Urbia, representing Justin Hohl, Application SPR-044-2021, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated June 14, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Gary Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Squire, Hawker, Nixon, and Bingham voted, “Aye”.

Commissioner Mary Squire was excused from the remainder of the meeting and Alternate
Kendra Shirey filled in for the vacant position.

2.     Public Hearing: Exeter (Summit Commerce Center) Amended Development
       Agreement (Legislative Action)

On the request of Mark McKee, representing Exeter Draper Land LLC and ARCO Design Build,
a request to amend an existing Development Agreement to allow for a Fast-Food Restaurant as a
Permitted Use within the Summit Commerce Center Development, on approximately 26.94 acres
at approximately 13004 South Pony Express Road, known as Application #DA-120-2022. Staff
contact: Todd Draper, 801.576.6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Todd Draper, City Planner, introduced the request for Summit Commerce Center noting that the
land use designation for the site was Business and Light Manufacturing and zoning was M1. He
presented the currently approved site plan and explained that the requested amendment to the
Development Agreement was to permit fast-food restaurant use on the site.


                                              4
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 23, 2022
Page 5

Commissioner Susan Nixon inquired if they anticipated the use of a drive through for the fast-
food restaurant.

Mr. Draper replied that the restaurant did not have to have a drive through and could function
similar to a Subway located inside of a Wal-Mart. He stated that it was unlikely that an amended
Site Plan application to add a drive though would come to them for this site. He noted that the
building was a furniture store that had a restaurant chain of their own that they intended to put
inside the store, or could lease the space to one which frequently followed them.

Chairperson Andrew Adams noted that the site plan had already been approved without a drive
through.

Mark McKee, Applicant, clarified that the tenant was hoping to sell prepackaged food items to
customers in the furniture store viewing their show rooms and purchasing furniture.

Chairperson Andrew Adams opened the meeting up for public comments on the item. No
comments were offered and the public hearing was closed.


Motion: Commissioner Craig Hawker motioned to forward a positive recommendation to
the City Council for the amended development agreement as requested by Mark McKee,
representing Exeter Draper Land LLC and ARCO Design Build, Application #DA-120-
2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated
June 14, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Gary Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Hawker, Nixon, Bingham, and Shirey voted, “Aye”.

3.     Training: Land Use and Utah Land Use Development Management Act Changes

Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney, provided an overview of legislative updates in the
most recent general legislative session and what changes would mean for the Planning
Commission. He explained that HB462 Public Transit Planning requires that they incorporate
Station Area Plans (SAP’s) in to the City’s general plan. He stated that the plan needed to
encompass ½ mile radius from every station and its objective was to promote housing
availability, access to opportunities, environmental conditions, and transportation choices and
connections. He pointed out that each SAP must include a station area vision, area map, 5-year
implementation plan, and a statement addressing how the plan promotes the SAP objectives.

Mr. DuShane stated HB462 Moderate Income Implementation which requires the city submit a
moderate-income housing report to the Housing and Community Development Division at
Department of Workforce Services by October 1, 2022.



                                                5
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 23, 2022
Page 6
Chairperson Andrew Adams inquired what the moderate income level currently was.

Mr. DuShane replied that it was statutorily defined and is a percentage of the average income in
the area. He indicated he was not aware what the exact numbers were. He noted that the dollar
amount was subject to change as wages and average income in the area change. He indicated the
city would also need to adopt the SAP’s and also is not allowed to charge impact fees for Internal
Accessory Dwelling Units (I-ADU).

Mr. DuShane reviewed SB110 Water Conservation Efforts which required the cities to include
water use and preservation implementations in their general plan. He remarked that the Division
of Water Resources had some funding available to help municipalities with implementing water
preservation into their general plans.

Mr. DuShane indicated that HB 303 Local Land Use Amendment mainly dealt with noticing
requirements. He indicated that the bill also required mail notice and public hearing for
municipal disconnection, defined that land use regulation and use permit were not a land use
decision, land use regulation text amendments require notice that lay people can understand, and
legal non-conforming use needed to be proved by substantial evidence. He indicated that the Bill
repealed a portion of last year’s bill granting vested rights to then current land use regulations for
10 years after a subdivision plat is recorded. He stated that the bill required notices for changes
to public improvements in subdivisions and would allow cities to adopt an ordinance to specify
that combining lots would not require a plat amendment.

Commissioner Susan Nixon asked who the notices required for changes to public improvements
in subdivisions were intended for.

Mr. DuShane stated he believed the notices were for adjoining property owners and affected
entities, but he would have to check the text in the bill to verify that information.

Mr. DuShane reviewed HB282 Water Wise Landscaping and HB118 Wetland Amendments. He
indicated that HB282 prohibited requiring lawn or turf in park strips in an area with a width less
than 8 feet or from prohibiting a property owner from incorporating water wise landscaping.

Chairperson Andrew Adams asked if that would change anything for HOAs.

Mr. DuShane replied that it was his understanding that HOAs were under the same rule. He
noted that they could still establish their own standards for water wise landscaping which could
include acceptable materials among other things.

Mr. DuShane shared that HB118 indicated that any land use permit affecting designated
wetlands needed to be submitted to the Utah Geologic Survey.

Commissioner Susan Nixon inquired what the average width for a parking strip was.


                                                  6
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 23, 2022
Page 7

Brien Maxfield, City Engineer, commented that the current city standard was for a 10-foot
parking strip on local streets and 4 to 6 feet wide on collector and arterial streets.

4.     Training: Land Use Liability Training

Mike Barker, City Attorney, reviewed the principles of exactions which he noted were rooted in
both the federal and state constitutions which indicated that private property cannot be taken for
public use without just compensation. He noted that exaction concepts included dedications of
private property to the public as a development approval condition as well as zoning regulation
requirements that control development within a zone. He pointed out that zoning regulation
requirements could include setbacks, height restrictions, density controls and more.

Mr. Barker reviewed case law concerning exactions including Nollan v. California Coastal
Commission which established that there needed to be an essential link between what is being
asked of the property owner and the impacts of the development. He indicated that Dolan v. City
of Tigard established the “rough proportionality” test which requires each exaction to be roughly
proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed development. He noted
that within Utah they had a series of exactions cases called the BAM Development cases around
dedications for roads.

Mr. Barker explained that in light of these cases the state used 10-9a-508 to codify the Nollan
and Dolan tests and provide rules around exactions. He stated that cities could only legally
impose exactions if an essential link exists between a legitimate governmental interest and each
exaction; and each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to the impact of
the proposed development. He also noted the City’s recent text amendment regarding exactions.

Mr. Barker then reviewed some of the State Ombudsman’s legal determinations and analysis of
cases in Utah.

Todd Draper, City Planner, explained more about the exaction that Salt Lake County had
required that led to BAM and that it involved additional dedication for a planned one-hundred
and six foot (106’) right of way and the request was for dedicating between thirty (30) and fifty
(50) feet property width to the future planned roadway.

Mr. Barker noted that exactions required an individualized determination and they planned to do
that on a more formal basis going forward.
Chairperson Andrew Adams thanked the attorneys for the presentation and noted that concluded
the agenda items.

5.     Adjournment

Motion: Commissioner Susan Nixon motioned to adjourn the meeting.


The meeting was adjourned at 7:39pm.


                                                 7
