Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jonathan Concidine
CC: Jennifer Jastremsky Date: October 18, 2022
Re: Patterson Property - Zoning Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 3.3 acres located on the east side of Boulter St., at approximately 13101 S. Boulter St. and 13103 S. Boulter St. The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved to allow the property owner to subdivide the lots.
The Planning Commission heard the Zoning Map Amendment request on September 22, 2022 and gave a positive recommendation, 5-0. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3. The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4. The proposed amendment is unlikely to adversely affect adjacent property; and
5. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are adequate.
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4. The proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent property; and
5. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are inadequate. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance #1567 10/11/2022 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 10/11/2022 Cover Memo