MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, JUNE 7, 2022,
IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:            Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green (via
                    Zoom), Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:            Councilmember T. Lowery

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Fred Aegerter, Community
                    Development Director; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Kellie
                    Challburg, Chief of Staff; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; John Eining,
                    Police Chief; Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager; Malena
                    Murray, Human Resources Director; Rhett Ogden, Recreation
                    Director; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson,
                    Communications Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen,
                    IT; Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager, and Spencer DuShane,
                    Assistant City Attorney
_____________________________________________________________
Study Session
Items were not heard in the same order as on the agenda due to time constraints

1.0   Training: Land Use Legislative Updates – Spencer DuShane

1.1   Assistant City Attorney Spencer DuShane provided an update on the
      following 2022 Legislation and answered questions from the Council: HB 462
      - Public Transit Planning, SB 110 – Water Conservation Efforts, HB 303 – Land
      Use Regulations, HB 282 – Water-wise Landscaping, and HB 118 – Wetland
      Amendments.

2.0   Closed Session

2.1   At 5:47 p.m., Councilmember Vawdrey moved to recess into Closed Session
      to discuss litigation. Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

2.2   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                         Yes    No      Absent
        Councilmember Green                             x
        Councilmember T. Lowery                         x


Draper City Council Minutes – June 7, 2022
       Councilmember F. Lowry         X
       Councilmember Roberts          X
       Councilmember Vawdrey          X

3.0   Discussion: Home Occupation Code
      **This item was not presented

4.0   Council/Manager Reports,
      **heard at the end of the meeting
4.1   Councilmember F. Lowry commented that several years ago the Council acted
      on citizen requests to extend the hours of use for pickleball courts from 10:00
      p.m. to 11:00 p.m. He said a request was made by a neighbor of the pickleball
      courts to move the end time back to 10:00 p.m. due to noise associated with
      the use of the courts. Councilmember Vawdrey said she thought the request
      seemed reasonable. Two Councilmembers indicated a desire to change the
      time back to 10:00 p.m., and two Councilmembers indicated a desire to leave
      the time at 11:00 p.m. Mayor Walker indicated support for leaving the time at
      11:00 p.m.



Business Session

1.0   Call to Order at 7:00 p.m., Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

2.1   The prayer was offered by Pastor Nate Taylor, Corner Canyon Church. The
      Pledge of Allegiance was led by Chief John Eining.

3.0   Presentation: Introducing the 2022 Miss Draper Royalty and Farewell to 2021
      Miss Draper Royalty.

3.1   Mayor Walker welcomed and thanked 2021 Miss Draper Royalty: Grace
      Mead, Miss Draper, and Kiara D’Amico, 1st Attendant. Miss Mead expressed
      appreciation for the experience, shared a video presentation, and spoke of
      her plans going forward.

3.2   Mandi Brady, Director of the Miss Draper Scholarship Program introduced
      and welcomed 2022 Miss Draper Royalty: Lauren Carn, Miss Draper; Shaelyn

                                                                         Page 2 of 8
      Preede, 1st Attendant; and Ashley Peterson, 2nd Attendant. Photographs were
      taken with the Council and 2021 and 2022 Miss Draper Royalty.

4.0   Public Comments
      None

5.0   Consent Items
      a. Approval of May 17, 2022, City Council Meeting Minutes.
      b. Approval of Resolution #22-26, a Resolution of the Draper City Council to
         amend the Street Tree Guide.
      c. Approval of Resolution #22-27, a Resolution of the Draper City Council to
         sign a funding agreement between Draper City and the Jordan Valley
         Water Conservancy District (JVWCD) for the reimbursement of funds to
         Draper City.
      d. Approval of Resolution #22-28, a Resolution of the Draper City Council
         amending Section 4040 and 4050 of the Personnel Policies and
         Procedures Manual regarding establishing identity and eligibility to work
         and obtaining pre-employment information.
      e. Approval of Resolution #22-29, a Resolution appointing Kendra Shirey as
         an alternate member of the Draper City Planning Commission.

5.1   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve the Consent Items.
      Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

5.2   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                     Yes     No      Absent

       Councilmember Green           X
       Councilmember T. Lowery                       X
       Councilmember F. Lowry        x
       Councilmember Roberts         x
       Councilmember Vawdrey         x

6.0   Action Item: Approval of Letter of Intent regarding a Purchase Agreement for
      a portion of the Fitzgerald property adjacent to Draper City Hall.

6.1   City Manager David Dobbins explained the terms of the proposed Letter of
      Intent to enter into a Purchase Agreement for approximately 5 acres adjacent

                                                                        Page 3 of 8
      to Draper City Hall for a purchase price of $7,000,000. The City, as the buyer,
      would have thirty days from execution of the Agreement to determine the
      acceptability of the property. The Seller was willing to sell the property on the
      condition that the City would rezone the balance of the Seller’s property
      (approximately 22 adjoining acres) and approve a concept plan. If the City
      failed to complete the rezone within 60 days, the purchase and sale agreement
      would terminate.

6.2   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to accept the Letter of Intent to enter into a
      Purchase Agreement. Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

6.3   Councilmember F. Lowry said he appreciated Ivory Homes being willing to
      allow Draper City to preserve a bigger area in the City Center.

6.4   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                      Yes      No      Absent
       Councilmember Green            X
       Councilmember T. Lowery                         X
       Councilmember F. Lowry         X
       Councilmember Roberts          X
       Councilmember Vawdrey          X

7.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1543, an Ordinance approving the Master
      Development Agreement for the Pye Residence regarding the development of
      Lot 2 of the Elggren Subdivision within Draper City.

7.1   City Attorney Mike Barker explained the following terms of the proposed
      Development Agreement between the City and the property owner, and stated
      the Planning Commission forwarded a positive recommendation:

      1.   Approve a 17-foot rear yard setback on the subject property. This is in
           place of the normally required 20-foot setback.
      2.   Set the south side setback so that it is the northern boundary of a
           proposed storm drain easement.
      3.   Have the property owner agree to grant the City a storm drain easement
           and require the easement be recorded at the same time as the
           Development Agreement.



                                                                           Page 4 of 8
      4.   Allow the property owner to access 1840 East, if they can acquire
           permission from the private owners of 1840 East.
      5.   The property owner wishes to relocate a pressurized irrigation pipeline
           owned by WaterPro. The City will only issue a building permit for building
           plans within the existing WaterPro easement if WaterPro has granted a
           waiver letter.
      6.   Continue to prohibit the use of the existing access right-of-way easement
           along the south property line for vehicle access to the property.

7.2   Mayor Walker opened a public hearing.

7.3   Jason Pye, Draper resident, thanked staff for their help on the matter.

7.4   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

7.5   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinance #1543.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

7.6   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                      Yes     No       Absent
       Councilmember Green            x
       Councilmember T. Lowery                         x
       Councilmember F. Lowry         x
       Councilmember Roberts          x
       Councilmember Vawdrey          x

8.0   Public Hearing: Resolution #22-30, a Resolution of the City Council of the City
      of Draper, Utah (the "issuer"), delegating to certain officers of the issuer the
      authority to approve the final terms and provisions in connection with the
      issuance and sale of not more than $7,500,000 aggregate principal amount of
      sales tax revenue bonds, Series 2022 Bonds of the issuer; authorizing and
      approving the execution of a supplemental indenture, a bond purchase
      agreement, and other documents that may be required in connection
      therewith; approving a preliminary official statement and an official statement;
      authorizing the taking of all other transactions contemplated by this
      resolution; and related matters.




                                                                          Page 5 of 8
8.1   Mr. Dobbins presented proposed Resolution #22-30, and answered questions
      from the Council.

8.2   Mayor Walker opened a public hearing. No one came forward, so Mayor
      Walker closed the public hearing.

8.3   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                  Resolution   #22-30.
      Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

8.4   Councilmember F. Lowry said he could not think of a better use for a bond,
      and said he was excited about the opportunity to preserve a part of the City.
      Councilmember Green expressed support and said he was excited to see how
      the City Center would be shaped.

8.5   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                     Yes     No      Absent
       Councilmember Green           x
       Councilmember T. Lowery                       x
       Councilmember F. Lowry        x
       Councilmember Roberts         x
       Councilmember Vawdrey         x

9.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1544, an Ordinance vacating a portion of right-of-
      way for a street known as 700 West located south of 12300 South.

9.1   Mr. Barker asked that the matter be continued to the June 21, 2022, Council
      meeting.

9.2   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to continue Ordinance #1544 to the next City
      Council meeting. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

9.3   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                     Yes     No      Absent
       Councilmember Green           x
       Councilmember T. Lowery                       x
       Councilmember F. Lowry        x
       Councilmember Roberts         x

                                                                       Page 6 of 8
        Councilmember Vawdrey          x

10.0   Action Item: Resolution #22-31, a Resolution of the Draper City Council
       approving the Fifth Amendment to the Big Willow Development Agreement.

10.1   Mr. Dobbins explained the proposed amendment would allow Ivory to create
       a second access to Big Willow Development. He recommended approval of
       Resolution #22-31.

10.2   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                    Resolution     #22-31.
       Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

10.3   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.

                                       Yes      No      Absent
        Councilmember Green            x
        Councilmember T. Lowery                         x
        Councilmember F. Lowry         x
        Councilmember Roberts          x
        Councilmember Vawdrey          x

11.0   Action Item: Ordinance #1542, an Ordinance of the Draper City Council
       adopting subsection 15-1-075 of the Draper City Municipal Code regarding
       regulations for public property adjacent to parade routes.

11.1   Mr. Barker explained the proposed Ordinance #1542 was intended to balance
       the public interest in observing parades in Draper City, with the property rights
       of homeowners along the parade route and the City’s authority to regulate city-
       owned rights-of-way. He stated a more recent draft of the proposed ordinance
       was prepared since the agenda packet was put together to correct a citation
       error, and recommended adoption of the most recent draft.

11.2   Councilmember Roberts moved to adopt Ordinance #1542, including
       reference to DCMC 15-4-110. Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

11.3   A roll call vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously.




                                                                            Page 7 of 8
                                     Yes     No      Absent
        Councilmember Green          X
        Councilmember T. Lowery                      X
        Councilmember F. Lowry       X
        Councilmember Roberts        X
        Councilmember Vawdrey        X

12.0   Adjournment

12.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember F.
       Lowry seconded the motion.

12.2   A voice vote was taken. The motion passed unanimously (4 to 0).

12.3   The meeting adjourned at 7:54 p.m.




                                                                         Page 8 of 8
