                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, Utah 84020



                                                 STAFF REPORT
                                             November 1, 2022

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: November 10, 2022

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jonathan Concidine, Planner
                   Planning Division
                   Community Development Department
                   801-576-6522, j.concidine@draperutah.gov

Re:     Mother and Mine Massage – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-193-2022
        Applicant:        Sariah Boyer, representing Mother and Mine Massage
        Project Location: 447 E. Kimballs Ln.
        Current Zoning: R3 (Single Family Residential, 13,000 sq. ft. min. lot size) Zone
        Acreage:          0.34 Acres (Approximately 14,800 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the R3 zone regarding a home massage business.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.34 acres located on the east side of Bangerter Parkway, at approximately
447 E. Kimballs Ln. (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is
requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a
home based personal care service business.

The property was built in 2003 and the Kimball Estates subdivision was recorded in 2001.




Mother and Mine Massage                                           App. # USE-193-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request        1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                   General Plan and Zoning Designations                Exhibit
 Existing Land Use         Residential Medium Density                          Exhibit D
 Current Zoning            R3                                                  Exhibit E
 Proposed Use              Single Family Residential
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                   R3
    West                   R3
    North                  R3
    South                  A5 (Agricultural)

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3
zone is to “permit medium density residential development without special mitigation



Mother and Mine Massage                                           App. # USE-193-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster residential development with
little impact on its surroundings and on municipal services, and to generally preserve the
semirural character called for in the density element of the general plan.”

Home Occupation.

The massage business is located in a spare bedroom in the home. There will be a foldable
room divider to visually separate the massage area from the living area. Customers will
have access to a guest bathroom.

Clients will be able to park only in the arch driveway for the home, which is located on the
southeast portion of the front yard. Operating hours will be Tuesday to Thursday, 9 AM to
12 PM. All clients must make an appointment. A maximum of seven clients per week are
expected.

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are as
follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
           the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.
               a. Applicant resides in the dwelling and is the sole provider of labor in the
                   home occupation.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
           and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.
              a. Applicant will obtain a business license.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
           employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
           limited to one person.
               a. No other employees.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
           other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
           city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.
                a. Facilities will comply with code.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
           fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.
                a. Inventory will not exceed 250 sq. ft.




Mother and Mine Massage                                                     App. # USE-193-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     3
        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
           exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
           dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
           benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
           provide parking required for a home occupation.
               a. Structures and yards will not be modified.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
           offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
           magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
               a. Home occupation will not cause a nuisance.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
           primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
           disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
           is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
           for the home occupation.
                a. Home occupation is the secondary use. Less than 25% of the house will
                   be used for the home occupation.

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
             title.
                  a. Signs will comply with the DCMC.

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.
                 a. Minimal traffic impacts are anticipated as clients will have to make an
                      appointment and clients will be seen one at a time.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
           vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
           would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
           shall be allowed on vehicles.
              a. No vehicles associated with the home occupation will be found on the
                   property.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
           any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.
              a. Yards will not be used for the home occupation.




Mother and Mine Massage                                                    App. # USE-193-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request     4
        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
              a. Customers will be limited to 7 per week.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
           excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.
                a. The home occupation will not require excessive utility demands.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.
               a. The home occupation will occur within the primary structure.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
           conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
           dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
           this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
           letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
           case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
           vehicles.
               a. Home occupation will take place in a single-family dwelling.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
           state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
           not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
           Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
           childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
           seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
           inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
           under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.
               a. No licenses are required.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
            conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
            the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
            reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may
            include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,



Mother and Mine Massage                                                App. # USE-193-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
             screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes
             and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
             motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
             denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
             applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                   requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                   development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                   access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                   space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                   such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                   and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
                   city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
             needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.

REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home



Mother and Mine Massage                                                    App. # USE-193-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request    6
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the Planning
Commission review the request, receive public comment, and approve the application
based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, as listed within the staff
report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.       Unless there is substantial action under a conditional use permit within one
                 year from the date of its issuance, said permit shall expire and shall have no
                 further force or effect. A written request may be submitted to the
                 Community Development Department prior to expiration of the conditional
                 use permit for an extension of up to six (6) months, subject to approval of
                 the Planning Commission, provided substantial action is shown toward
                 establishing the conditional use and the requirements for extension under
                 Section 9-5-030 of this chapter are met.
        2.       Customers shall be limited to 7 customers per week.
        3.        A business license shall be obtained and maintained at all times.
        4.       Any permits required by state, county, or health departments shall be
                 obtained and maintained at all times.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
           alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.
        2. The proposed use is harmonious with the objectives and requirements of the
           city's general plan and this title;
        3. The specific property is appropriate for the proposed use;
        4. The proposed use or facility is unlikely to be injurious to potential or existing
           development in the vicinity;
        5. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area is
           beneficial;
        6. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area is
           negligible;



Mother and Mine Massage                                                App. # USE-193-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
        7. The utilities, transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
           screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and
           vehicular circulation are adequate;
        8. Noxious or offensive emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor
           from the proposed facility or use are unlikely; and
        9. The health, safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or
           leasing property in the area will be unaffected.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
           alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.
        2. The proposed use is not harmonious with the objectives and requirements of
           the city's general plan and this title;
        3. The specific property is inappropriate for the proposed use;
        4. The proposed use or facility is likely to be injurious to potential or existing
           development in the vicinity;
        5. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area is
           negative;
        6. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area is
           negative;
        7. The utilities, transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
           screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and
           vehicular circulation are inadequate;
        8. Noxious or offensive emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor
           from the proposed facility or use are likely; and
        9. The health, safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or
           leasing property in the area will be negatively affected.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Mother and Mine Massage
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Sariah Boyer, representing
Mother and Mine Massage, application USE-193-2022, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated November 1, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Mother and Mine
Massage Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Sariah Boyer,
representing Mother and Mine Massage, application USE-193-2022, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated November 1, 2022 and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:




Mother and Mine Massage                                               App. # USE-193-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Mother and Mine Massage Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Sariah Boyer, representing Mother
and Mine Massage, application USE-193-2022, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated November 1, 2022.




Mother and Mine Massage                                         App. # USE-193-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   9
             DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development
Review Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject
for this staff report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be
appropriate for review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.


                                                                                                  Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                          Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield
                                                                                                  DN: C=US,

 Brien Maxfield
                          DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City,
                          ou=PW - Engineering,                                                    E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                          email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov, c=US
                                                                             Jennifer Jastremsky  O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City,

______________________________                                               ______________________________
                          Date: 2022.11.02 16:49:31 -06'00'                                       CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                  Date: 2022.11.02 11:38:58-06'00'

Draper City Public Works Department                                          Draper City Planning Division



                                                                             Mike Barker
                                                                                           Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                                                                                           Date: 2022.11.02 11:43:41
______________________________                                               ______________________________
                                                                                           -06'00'

Draper City Fire Department                                                  Draper City Legal Counsel

                         Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                         DN: C=US,

 Keith Collier           E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov, O=Draper

______________________________
                         City, OU=Building Official, CN=Keith Collier
                         Date: 2022.11.02 12:02:15-06'00'

Draper City Building Division




       and Mine
Mother and MineMassage
                Massage                                                                   App.
                                                                                        App.   # USE-193-2022
                                                                                             # USE-193-2022
Home Occupation
Home  OccupationConditional
                 Conditional Use
                            Use   Permit
                                Permit   Request
                                       Request                          9
                                                                        10
                                 EXHIBIT A
                            DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



     No outstanding comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
