Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: April 28, 2022
Re: Rockwell Station Subdivision Plat Amendment and Site Plan Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Subdivision Plat Amendment and Site Plan, including Deviations from Design Standards, for approximately 1.23 acres located on the east side of 700 East, at approximately 696 E. 12100 S & 698 E. 12100 S. The property is currently zoned CN. The applicant is requesting that a Subdivision Plat Amendment, Site Plan, and Deviation from Design Standards be approved to allow for the development of the property to create two (2) lots and to construct a commercial office building on each lot. The findings are as follows: Deviation Requests :
For Approval:
1. The deviation is in the benefit of the health, safety and welfare of the city and the project.
2. The minimum three (3) criteria required for approval of a deviation have been met.
For Denial:
1. The deviation is not in the benefit of the health, safety and welfare of the city and the project.
2. The minimum three (3) criteria required for approval of a deviation have not been met.
Site Plan:
For Approval:
1. The applicant acknowledges it has not met the specific conditions of approval.
2. The application will meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City Municipal Code, including Section 9-5-090(E), once the specific conditions of approval have been met.
3. The Planning Commission has agreed to approve the application with conditions (as outlined above) subject to the applicant complying with the specific conditions of approval.
4. The final effective date of the Planning Commission’s Site Plan approval will be when the Zoning Administrator confirms the applicant has complied with the specific conditions of approval.
5. The applicant will comply with the general conditions of approval throughout the construction of the project.
6. The proposal represents development of the entire site at one time.
7. Once the specific conditions of approval have been met the site plan will conform to applicable standards set forth in in ordinance including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
8. Once the specific conditions of approval have been met the proposed development plans will meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
9. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
10. The proposed development plans will comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
For Denial:
1. The site plan application does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
2. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
3. Public facilities and services in the area do not adequately support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
4. The proposed development plans do not comply with all required engineering standards as found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code.
Subdivision Plat Amendment:
For Approval:
1. The applicant acknowledges it has not met the specific conditions of approval.
2. The application will meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City Municipal Code, including Sections 17-9-030, 17-9-040 &17-9-050, once the specific conditions of approval have been met.
3. The Planning Commission has agreed to approve the application with conditions (as outlined above) subject to the applicant complying with the specific conditions of approval.
4. The final effective date of the Planning Commission’s Subdivision Plat Amendment approval will be when the Zoning Administrator confirms the applicant has complied with the specific conditions of approval.
5. The applicant will comply with the general conditions of approval throughout the construction of the project.
6. There is good cause to amend the subdivision plat.
For Denial:
1. The application does not meet the requirements and provisions of Draper City Municipal Code, including Sections 17-9-030, 17-9-040 &17-9-050.
2. There is not good cause to amend the subdivision plat.
ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type P.C. Staff Report 4/22/2022 Cover Memo