                            Development Review Committee
                                 1020 East Pioneer Road
                                   Draper, Utah 84020


                                          STAFF REPORT
                                        September 23, 2022

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: October 13, 2022

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By:    Jonathan Concidine, Planner
          Planning Division
          Community Development Department
          801-576-6522, j.concidine@draperutah.gov

Re: Corner Canyon Quilting – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
Request
     Application No.: USE-171-2022
     Applicant:        Jessica Clayton, representing Corner Canyon Quilting, LLC
     Project Location: 12657 Bridgewood Lane
     Current Zoning: R3 (Single Family Residential, 13,000 sq. ft. min. lot size)
                       Zone
     Acreage:          0.33 Acres (Approximately 14,350 ft2)
     Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                       Permit in the R3 zone.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit for approximately 0.33 acres located on the west side of Bridgewood Lane,
at 12657 Bridgewood Lane (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned R3. The
applicant is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved
to allow for the operation of a home quilting business.

The home was built in 1995. It is Lot No. 226 of the Stonebridge Estates Phase 2
subdivision. The plat was recorded in 1994.


ANALYSIS




Corner Canyon Quilting                                             App. # USE-171-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   1
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations             Exhibit
 Existing Land           Residential Medium Density                       Exhibit D
 Use
 Current Zoning          R3                                               Exhibit E
 Proposed Use            Single Family Residence
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                 R3
    West                 R3
    North                R3
    South                R3

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of
the R3 zone is to “permit medium density residential development without special
mitigation requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster
residential development with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal
services, and to generally preserve the semirural character called for in the density




Corner Canyon Quilting                                               App. # USE-171-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
element of the general plan.”

Home Occupation. The applicant wishes to run a quilting business from her home.
Customers will drop off the quilt materials and pick up the finished quilts. The
applicant estimates a traffic impact of 5-7 trips per week. The hours of operation
will be 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM. Parking will be provided in the applicant’s driveway.

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request,
are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a
           person who resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located.
           Such person shall be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service
           provided in the home occupation.
              a. Applicant owns the home.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be
           obtained from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6,
           chapter 11 of this code.
              a. Applicant will obtain a business license.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the
           dwelling may be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or
           nonresident employees shall be limited to one person.
              a. Employees will be family members.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing,
           electrical and all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections
           during reasonable hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure
           compliance with regulations.
              a. Facilities will comply with code.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed
           two hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No
           outside storage is allowed.
              a. Inventory will not exceed 250 sq. ft.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence
           from the exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose
           than that of a dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the
           dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home
           occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking required
           for a home occupation.
               a. Structures and yards will not be modified.




Corner Canyon Quilting                                                App. # USE-171-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   3
        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the
           dwelling which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor,
           smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
              a. Home occupation will not cause a nuisance.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and
           secondary to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The
           home occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
           neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
           percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.
              a. Home occupation is the secondary use. Less than 25% of the house
                 will be used for the home occupation.

        I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26,
           "Signs", of this title.
              a. Signs will comply with the DCMC.

        J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate
           pedestrian, parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily
           associated with the zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be
           provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for drop off
           traffic.
               a. Minimal traffic impacts are anticipated.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there
           shall be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the
           home occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No
           signage for the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.
              a. No vehicles associated with the home occupation will be found on
                  the property.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not
           be used for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the
           home occupation.
              a. Yards will not be used for the home occupation.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare
           or limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
               a. Recommend limit of 7 customers per week as a condition of
                  approval.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
           utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for
           residential uses.
               a. The home occupation will not require excessive utility demand.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.



Corner Canyon Quilting                                                App. # USE-171-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   4
                a. The home occupation will occur within the primary structure.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
           permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-
           family or a multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within
           this section and section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within
           multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from the
           respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case
           of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or
           business vehicles.
               a. Home occupation will take place in a single-family dwelling.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
           applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential
           childcare, including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care
           licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et
           seq., as amended, and the residential certificate childcare standards as
           set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as
           amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated
           and inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related
           home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with these
           regulations.
               a. No licenses are required.

Criteria For Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is
found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the
           issuance of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a
           zone where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use
           regulations of the zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially
           mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
           These conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction,
           character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation,
           and other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section.
           Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the
           conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional
           use cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable
           conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
           conditional use may be denied.
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining
           whether a conditional use permit application should be approved,



Corner Canyon Quilting                                                 App. # USE-171-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
           approved with conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot
           be imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
            a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
               and requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
            b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
            c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or
               existing development in the vicinity;
            d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
               surrounding area;
            e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
               surrounding area;
            f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
               transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
               screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian
               and vehicular circulation;
            g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
               emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
               proposed facility or use; and
            h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
               welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in
               the area.
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
           reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this
           subsection E can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their
review of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from
this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and
Public Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their
review of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from
this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division,
if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and
State Codes.




Corner Canyon Quilting                                                App. # USE-171-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the
Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and approve the
application based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, as listed
within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they
include the following conditions of approval:

        1.      That customers shall park solely on the driveway.
        2.      That customers shall be limited to 7 per week.
        3.      Per DCMC Section 9-5-080(J), unless there is substantial action under
                a conditional use permit within one year from the date of its issuance,
                said permit shall expire and shall have no further force or effect. A
                written request may be submitted to the Community Development
                Department prior to expiration of the conditional use permit for an
                extension of up to six (6) months, subject to approval of the Planning
                Commission, provided substantial action is shown toward establishing
                the conditional use and the requirements for extension under DCMC
                Section 9-5-030 are met.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
           alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.
        2. The proposed use is harmonious with the objectives and requirements of
           the city's general plan and this title;
        3. The specific property is appropriate for the proposed use;
        4. The proposed use or facility is unlikely to be injurious to potential or
           existing development in the vicinity;
        5. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
           area is beneficial;
        6. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
           area is negligible;
        7. The utilities, transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space,
           lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and
           pedestrian and vehicular circulation are adequate;
        8. Noxious or offensive emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and
           odor from the proposed facility or use are unlikely; and
        9. The health, safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning
           or leasing property in the area will be unaffected.


The findings for denial as are follows:




Corner Canyon Quilting                                                 App. # USE-171-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
        1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use
           to alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.
        2. The proposed use is not harmonious with the objectives and requirements
           of the city's general plan and this title;
        3. The specific property is inappropriate for the proposed use;
        4. The proposed use or facility is likely to be injurious to potential or existing
           development in the vicinity;
        5. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
           area is negative;
        6. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
           area is negative;
        7. The utilities, transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space,
           lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and
           pedestrian and vehicular circulation are inadequate;
        8. Noxious or offensive emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and
           odor from the proposed facility or use are likely; and
        9. The health, safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning
           or leasing property in the area will be negatively affected.


MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Corner Canyon Quilting
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Jessica Clayton,
representing Corner Canyon Quilting, LLC, application USE-171-2022, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September
23, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Corner Canyon
Quilting Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Jessica Clayton,
representing Corner Canyon Quilting, LLC, application USE-171-2022, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September
23, 2022 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Corner Canyon Quilting Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Jessica Clayton, representing
Corner Canyon Quilting, LLC, application USE-171-2022, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 23, 2022.




Corner Canyon Quilting                                                   App. # USE-171-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
           DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development
Review Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject
for this staff report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be
appropriate for review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.


                                                                                                              Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                          Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield
                                                                                                              DN: C=US,

 Brien Maxfield
                          DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City, ou=PW -
                                                                                                              E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                          Engineering,
                          email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov, c=US
                                                                                         Jennifer Jastremsky  O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City,

______________________________
                          Date: 2022.10.05 07:53:37 -06'00'                              ______________________________
                                                                                                              CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                              Date: 2022.10.04 11:52:31-06'00'

Draper City Public Works Department                                                      Draper City Planning Division



 Don Buckley
                          Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                          DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us, O=Draper City Fire

______________________________
                          Department, OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                          Date: 2022.10.04 15:22:39-06'00'
                                                                                         Mike Barker   Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                                                                                                       Date: 2022.10.04 13:26:36 -06'00'
                                                                                         ______________________________
Draper City Fire Department                                                              Draper City Legal Counsel


                      Digitally signed by Keith Collier


 Keith Collier        DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov,

______________________________
                      O=Draper City, OU=Building Official, CN=Keith Collier
                      Date: 2022.10.05 09:54:07-06'00'


Draper City Building Division




«Project_Name»
App. # «JS_File_Number»
«Request_Type» Request                                                               8
                                EXHIBIT A
                           DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE
COMMENTS OR CONDITIONS.


No outstanding comments.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
1. A) A statement by the applicant demonstrating how the home occupation conditional
   use permit request meets the approval standards of DCMC 9-5-080(E).
       This business within the home will incur minimal impact to the neighborhood.

       The use of the business will have customers dropping off and picking up their completed
       quilts. There is more than adequate parking in our driveway and directly in front of our
       house to accommodate the infrequency of visits without imposing on neighbors.

       There is no construction occurring with this business.

       The character of the business does not impose any detrimental effect.

       The location of the business is inside of our home and does not impose on neighbors.

       There is no change to landscaping.

       Customers will have been screened prior to being permitted an appointment to drop off a
       quilt. Any customer who presents concerning behavior will not be granted an appointment.

       There is more than adequate parking in our driveway and directly in front of our property.
       There is approximately 120 feet of parking available directly in front of our property which
       would be more than adequate for customers not to impose on other residences.

       Hours of operation are 8:00am-6:00pm by appointment only.

       In regards to section 4:
       a. There is no detrimental affect to general plan of neighborhood given that no additional
            noise or noxious elements will be added to neighborhood. Customers will be instructed
            to park in our driveway or directly in front of our property.
       b. There are no changes to suitability of property for proposed use. There is more than
            adequate space in sidewalks to house and inside house for customers.
       c. There is no impact to other development in the vicinity
       d. There is only positive economic impact to the proposed use.
       e. There is no change in the aesthetic of the property.
       f. There is no change to adequate safeguards on or surrounding the neighborhood.
       g. No additional change of the following: noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
            proposed facility
       h. No change to health and safety of anyone in surroundings.


   B) A written narrative describing the nature of the home occupation conditional use,
   including information about the proposed use (describe the proposed use, including
   information such as required parking, hours of operation, expected patrons and/or
   employees, proposed site improvements, etc.). Include details of reasonably
   anticipated detrimental effects to adjacent properties and the neighborhood (such as
   traffic or noise), and any mitigation measures being proposed to alleviate those
   effects.
            As shown on page 2 of the ‘Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit’:
            “Will be doing a quilting business at this property. This involves customers dropping off
            quilt top/bottom and we will sew these layers (along with batting) together and they
            come pick the quilt up. Parking in driveway or in street in front of our residence. Hours
            of operation are 8:00am-6:00pm. No employees. Expect 5-7 patrons per week. Could
            increase traffic by 5-7 visitors per week. Customers will be provided with detailed
            parking information”
2. A) a. Any images, graphics, or additional information to better demonstrate the use or activity




    This is a longarm quilting machine. This is located in our basement. There is no detrimental
    effect to any of our surroundings by actual use of the machine. It is entirely confined within our
    structure, poses no hazard to anyone.
Project Name: Corner Canyon Quilting, LLC

Applicant Name: Jessica Clayton

Site Address: 12657 S Bridgewood Ln, Draper UT 84020

Date of Drawing: 2022-08-05

Property Boundary shown in Yellow Line Dimensions: 123’x119’ = 14,646 ft^2

Property to South: 12671 S Bridgewood Ln; Benjamine and Jennifer Hawkins

Property to East: 12656 S Bridgecreek Wy; Trenton Hymas

Property to North: 12639 S Bridgewood Ln; TTM&KEML Trust (Thor and Karen)

Property to West: 12658 S Bridgewood Ln; Roger and Kristi Evans
