Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jonathan Concidine
CC:  Date: July 28, 2022
Re: Avery Townhomes – Land Use & Zoning Map Amendments Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of Land Use & Zoning Map Amendments for approximately 2.44 acres located between 12300 S. and 12220 S. on the north and south, and Placer St. and 670 E. on the east and west, at approximately 638 E. 12225 S. The property is currently zoned OR . The applicant is requesting that Land Use & Zoning Map Amendments be approved to allow for the development of four townhomes units in addition to the 17 that have been previously approved. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.    The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4.   The proposed amendment should not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are adequate.
6.   The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Sections 9-2-020(F) and 9-5-060(D).
For denial:
1.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment is likely to adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are inadequate.
6.   The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Sections 9-2-020(F) and 9-5-060(D). ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 7/20/2022 Cover Memo