NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA October 18, 2022 at 6:30 PM
1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020 Council Chambers 6:30 PM STUDY MEETING 1. Closed Session: By Motion The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205.
a 2. Council/Manager Reports a 7:00 PM   BUSINESS MEETING 1. Call to Order 2. Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance 3. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 4. Consent Items a. Approval of October 4, 2022, City Council Meeting Minutes. b. Approval of Resolution # 22-56 A Resolution of the Draper City Council disposing of property seized as evidence in accordance with Utah Code Section 24-3-103. Staff: Jared Zacharias. c. Approval of Resolution #22-57 A Resolution reappointing Shivam Shah, Melarie Wheat, Jill Rowe, Erin Seibel, and Gary Thompson to the Draper City Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Committee. Staff: Kellie Challburg. 5. Providing Local Consent for an Off-Premise Beer alcohol license for Trader Joe's Company Staff Report by Travis DeJong a 6. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1566 An Ordinance of Draper City amending the text of the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code relating to standards for the location, design, and construction of temporary parking, and parking for recreation vehicles and trailers. Staff report by Todd Draper. a 7. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1567 An Ordinance amending  the Official Zoning Map of Draper City for approximately 3.3 acres of property from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot minimum lot size) to RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot minimum lot size), located at approximately 13101 S. Boulter Street within Draper City, otherwise known as the Patterson Property Zoning Map Amendment. Staff contact is Jonathan Concidine, staff report by Jennifer Jastremsky. a 8. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held October 18, 2022 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draperutah.gov , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News . Date Posted: October 14, 2022 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.