                                      DRAPER CITY HALL
                        Community Development | 1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020




September 24, 2021

Cross Construction
Attn: Alex Cross
3597 S. 1100 East
Millcreek, Utah 84106

RE:    Notice of Approval for the Cinnamon Ridge Lots 2 & 3 Plat Amendment/Lot Line
       Adjustment Request

Dear Alex,

On September 23, 2021, the Planning Commission approved your request for plat
amendment to complete a lot line adjustment for the properties at approximately 1106
and 1124 E. LeAmbra Lane, application SUBD-110-2021, with the following conditions:

1.     That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
       Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
       and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
2.     Once final plat has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
       construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division.
3.     Any work in a public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained
       through the Engineering Division.
4.     If the plat amendment is not recorded within one year from the date of approval or
       construction of the required landscaping and infrastructure has not commenced,
       such approval shall be null and void. This time period may be extended by the
       Planning Commission for up to one additional six month period for good cause
       shown. The subdivider must petition in writing for an extension prior to the
       expiration of the original one year.

Please be aware that the approval by Draper City in no way exempts the property from
complying with other requirements that may be in effect on the property such as CC&R’s,
zoning, subdivision, site plan, land disturbance, and building permit regulations, as
applicable. It is the responsibility of the property owner to ensure compliance with these
regulations.

Section 17-9-070 of the Draper City Municipal Code specifies that the approval of a plat
amendment expires one year from the date of approval if the plat has not been recorded
or construction of the required landscaping and infrastructure has not commenced. As



      801-576-6391      |   maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov      |   draperutah.gov
such, the approval granted for the subject request will be rendered null and void if
recordation or commencement of construction has not taken place. The expiration of the
approval can also be avoided through an extension of the approval. A maximum of one
extension for a period of up to six months can be requested in writing to the Community
Development Department prior to the date of expiration.

As the applicant, this letter is intended as a courtesy to document the status of your
request. If you have questions, please contact me at maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov
or 801-576-6391.

Respectfully,




Maryann Pickering, AICP
Planner III
Community Development Department

Cc:    Broch Lassig – brochlassig@gmail.com
       Josh Madsen of Gilson Engineering – josh@gilsonengineering.com
       Karen Burnett, GIS Manager
       Kendra Wong, Building Coordinator
       Danna Hyer, Office Manager, Public Works Division
