Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: August 2, 2022
Re: Pheasant Hills Plat 4 Lot 405 Open Space Easement Reduction Comments: The Pheasant Hills Phase 4 subdivision was approved in 1993 as a Planned Unit Development (PUD). At that time the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) required PUD’s to provide open space. The Pheasant Hills development was approved with 20% overall open space, including 20% located within Phase 4.  Open space areas that were not developed as common recreation areas, like a club house or park, were allowed under 1990 DCMC to be provided via easement on the subdivision plat.
1990 DCMC Section 9-7-12
To ensure the continuation of common open space use in accordance with the plans approved by the Planning Commission, the subdivider shall grant to the city an “Open Space Easement” on and over the common open space prior to or at the time of the recording of the final plat, which easement need not give the general public the right of access, but must provide that the common Open space remain open.
Lot 405 includes a 75-foot Home Owners Associations Easement and Draper City Open Space Easement (Easement) along the north property line, with the easement to be maintained by the owners association. This area is a dry ravine that runs through the subdivision. Twelve lots in the subdivision contain the easement along their rear property lines.
The applicant is requesting to reduce the easement from 75-feet to 40-feet, or roughly 2,945 square feet. The purpose of the request is to allow for tiered retaining walls to be located between the existing home and the easement. When the property owner began construction on their home, the structure was rotated resulting in the structure not complying with minimum setback standards and a small portion of the home being located within the easement. The property owner has been working with City staff to modify the home so that it does not encroach into the existing easement or setbacks. There is a substantial grade change of roughly 20-feet between the structure and drainage channel. Given the house’s close proximity to the 75-foot easement line, there is not room for the applicant to construct a retaining wall system that would address the grade change and comply with code. The maximum retaining wall height allowed by code is 9-feet. The applicant would need two retaining wall of that height given the grade changes on the property. The additional 35-feet of area created with the easement reduction, would allow the applicant to do several shorter retaining walls. This will make the transition from the home to the drainage channel less severe.
Staff has reviewed the affects to the open space. The reduction in easement would remove 2,945 square feet of open space from the subdivision. The overall Pheasant Hills development would continue to have 20% overall open space, or 6.449 acres. Pheasant Hills Phase 4 would also continue to have 20% open space, with the amount going from 20.6% to 19.5%. DCMC Section 9-3-030(G) allows fractional numbers to be rounded to the nearest whole number.
The applicant has submitted a letter from their engineer stating that the change in easement depth will not impact the ability of the channel to handle any drainage. City engineering staff concurs with the findings, and has recommended a condition of approval based on the letter from the engineer. Staff has also received a letter from the Owners Association stating that they are okay with the request and prefer several shorter retaining walls to one larger one.
Condition of Approval:
1.   The location of the current toe of slope of the current fill shall be considered the northern boundary of any future disturbance. All grading and construction shall be located south of this fill line.
The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The reduction in open space easement will not affect the function of the drainage channel.
2.   The reduction in open space easement will allow for a more gradual grade change from the existing home to the drainage channel.
3.   The condition of approval will adequately protect the open space easement in the future.
For denial:
1.   The reduction in open space easement will affect the overall open space amount within the development and reduce it by 2,945 square feet.
The condition of approval will not adequately protect the open space easement from encroachment in the future.  ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1553 7/29/2022 Cover Memo Existing Subdivision Plat 7/29/2022 Cover Memo Proposed Subdivision Plat 7/29/2022 Cover Memo Engineering Drainage Letter 7/29/2022 Cover Memo HOA Approval Letter 7/29/2022 Cover Memo Public Comment 7/29/2022 Cover Memo