                               RESOLUTION 22-10



           A RESOLUTION OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL ESTABLISHING A
          BENCH NAMING AND INSTALLATION POLICY FOR ALL DRAPER CITY
              PARKS, TRAILS, OPEN SPACE OR OTHER CITY PROPERTIES


      WHEREAS, Draper City wishes to establish a policy for the installation and
naming of benches placed in honor of individuals or to commemorate historical
events or community organizations; and

       WHEREAS, Draper City has a desire to manage this policy and use the best
practices within all Draper City-owned property.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

      Section 1. Approval. The City Council hereby approves Resolution 22-10,
adopting “EXHIBIT A” as attached hereto.

     Section 2. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately
upon passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON
THE 15TH DAY OF MARCH 2022.

                                            DRAPER CITY




                                            Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:




City Recorder
VOTE TAKEN:               YES   NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember T. Lowery

Councilmember F. Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker
                                       EXHIBIT “A”

   DRAPER CITY MEMORIAL BENCH NAMING AND INSTALLATION POLICY



Placement of Privately-Donated Benches on City Property


RESPONSIBLE CITY DEPARTMENT: Parks and Recreation

1. General:

1.1 Draper City (the “City”) recognizes that it may exercise control over city
property as a property owner.

1.2 On occasion the City receives requests by private persons or entities to allow
the placement of a bench with a plaque on city property.

1.3 The City has a legitimate interest in avoiding overcrowding, clutter, or
saturation of City cemeteries, parks and recreational facilities with donated
benches.

1.4 The City desires to establish a policy that will guide the City’s decisions in
bench placement and allow potential donors to comply with the policy.

1.5 The City may place privately funded benches in City cemeteries, parks and other
recreational facilities. The City’s Parks and Recreation Director or designee will
exercise sole discretion in deciding whether to accept a request to place a bench.

1.6 The City may select or deny locations for benches as the City believes is
appropriate and may consider such factors as safety, aesthetics, history, and
local culture.

2. Purpose:



The Purpose of this policy is to:

2.1 Establish the objectives for the acceptance and placement of donated
benches.

2.2 Establish the application requirements for requesting the placement of a
bench.
2.3 Guide the City in determining the appropriate location for the proposed
bench.
2.4 Ensure that the design, placement and appearance of the bench is
consistent with the community interest, facility function and the natural
environment.


3. Objective:

Proposed benches shall:
3.1 Be consistent with the intended purpose of the City’s cemetery, parks or
recreational facilities and their surrounding environment.

3.2 Enhance the landscape value of the City’s property.

3.3 Encourage community engagement and enhance the City’s cemetery, parks
    and recreational facilities.

4. Acceptance Criteria:

4.1 Any proposed bench must:

          a. Demonstrate some specific justification for being located at the
             requested site.

          b. Not interfere with existing and proposed usage patterns, and circulation at
             the site and must not pose any safety risk to users of the site.

          c. Be compatible with the location or setting of the site and compatible with
             the surroundings.

 4.2 Benches will only be considered for placement by the City if they do one of the
following:
          a. Commemorate places or historical events of local significance.

          b. Commemorate a community association and/or group that has
             contributed significantly to Draper.

          c. Commemorate a deceased person with a significant nexus to
             Draper at least one year after death and only with the consent of
             the decedent’s immediate family.


4.3 The City may allow donors to place a small recognition plaque on the bench.
The city will decide plaque size, shape, text font and location. Donors may select
from a list of pre-approved messages. Plaques may not include pictures or logos.

4.4 The City has sole discretion in choosing bench designs.
5. Assessment and Approval Process:

Any request to add a bench will be carefully assessed to ensure that the
proposal protects the integrity of the City’s cemetery, parks and recreational
facilities.

5.1 An applicant proposing to place a bench must select from a list of pre-
approved bench designs and installers, and provide:

             a. The suggested location of the bench; and
             b. A detailed explanation of how the bench meets the objectives
                and criteria of this policy.

5.2 The Parks and Recreation Department staff will review the application. Parks
and Recreation will not consider the proposed bench if it does not meet the stated
objectives and criteria of this policy.

5.3 The Parks and Recreation Department staff will determine the appropriate
location, which may be different from the location proposed by the applicant.

5.4 The Parks and Recreation Department staff will ensure that ongoing
maintenance costs do not negatively affect the resources available for
maintenance of other City parks or other spaces.

5.5 If the Parks and Recreation Department Director or designee approves the
proposed bench, the applicant must agree to pay the full cost of purchasing and
installing the bench.

5.6 Benches that are installed on City property will be deemed as donated to the
City.

5.7 If the bench becomes damaged or destroyed, the City may dispose of it
based on applicable City policies and procedures at the time of disposal.

6. Existing or Currently Accepted Benches

This policy does not apply to benches that have been built or accepted by the City
prior to the adoption of this policy.

7. Removal and/or Relocation Process:
The City reserves the right to remove and/or relocate benches for any reason or no
reason at all.

The City will send a registered letter to each identifiable donor notifying the
donor of any action related to the disposition of the bench. In certain emergency
situations, the city may notify the donor after removal or relocation. In the event
a bench is permanently removed, the City will seek an alternative location
consistent with this policy. If no such location can be found, the bench may be
given back to the donor at the City’s discretion.
