                                  ORDINANCE NO. 1565

       AN ORDINANCE AMENDING PORTIONS OF CHAPTER 9-18G OF THE
       DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE AS IT PERTAINS TO THE LONE PEAK
       COMMERICAL SPECIAL DISTRICT.

      WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of
property by zoning districts; and

       WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the Draper
City Municipal Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness,
applicability, or clarity; and

       WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code
has been established to provide regulations concerning general developments within the
City Boundaries; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted Land Use and Development Code
to guide development within the City Boundaries; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise some of the
standards for the Lone Peak Commercial Special District zoning district within the Land Use
and Development Code; and

      WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code
Annotated and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning
Commission and City Council to receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use
and Development Code; and

      WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public
hearing to receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development
Code.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1.     Findings. In adopting these changes to the DCMC, the City Council
finds: a) that Section 9-5-060(e) provides for and outlines the process for amending the text
of the DCMC; b) that this text amendment does not compromise any of the five factors
listed in Section 9-5-060(E)(2); and c) that the proposed text change is consistent with the
goals, objectives and policies of the City’s General Plan.




Ordinance No. 1565                           1      Lone Peak Business Park CSD Modifications
                                                                     Zoning Text Amendment
       Section 2.    Amendment. Changes to Chapter 9-18G as set forth in Exhibit “A”
attached hereto, is hereby adopted and incorporated in the regulation and development
applications for properties within the City Boundaries.

       Section 3.    Severability. If any section, part or provision of this ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other
portion of this ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this ordinance shall be
severable.

        Section 4.  Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date
of final passage.



PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON
THE __________ DAY OF___________________, 2022.

                                                  DRAPER CITY


                                                  _____________________________
                                                  Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder


VOTE TAKEN:                                        YES                     NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember T. Lowery

Councilmember F. Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker



Ordinance No. 1565                            2      Lone Peak Business Park CSD Modifications
                                                                      Zoning Text Amendment
                                  EXHIBIT A
                            PROPOSED TEXT CHANGES

               The following changes are made to applicable sections
                noted. Current sections not modified below are not
                         affected and shall not be repealed.




Ordinance No. 1565                       3    Lone Peak Business Park CSD Modifications
                                                               Zoning Text Amendment
Ordinance No. 1565   4   Lone Peak Business Park CSD Modifications
                                          Zoning Text Amendment
ARTICLE G. LONE PEAK COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICT



9-18G-030: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in the LPCSD. The following preferred permitted uses are
critical permitted uses to accelerate and preserve the unique business environment in the
LPCSD. Additional permitted uses are listed below that will further solidify the vitality and
diversity of the business interests in the LPCSD: (Ord. 1016, 6-5-2012)

A.     Preferred permitted uses:
       Manufacturing (controlled).
       Manufacturing, limited.
       Medical or dental laboratory.
       Office, general.
       Research service.
       Technology based research and development.
       Wholesale and warehousing, restricted, provided it is not within eighty feet (80') of
       any Residentially zoned property adjacent to the perimeter of the LPCSD. (Ord.
       1016, 6-5-2012; amd. Ord. 1085, 3-4-2014)

B.     Other permitted uses:
       Agriculture.
       Bank or financial institution.
       Business equipment rental and supplies.
       Business service.
       Car wash, commercial vehicles, in conjunction with a preferred another permitted
       use defined above.
       Commercial vehicle and equipment rental or sale.
       Commercial vehicle and equipment repair, in conjunction with a preferredanother
       permitted use defined above.
       Construction sales and service.
       Convenience store.
       Cultural service.
       Franchise Municipal use.
       Gasoline service station, but only in conjunction with a convenience store within the
       LPCSD.
       Government service.
       Higher education facility, private.
       Higher education facility, public.
       Hotel.
       Laundry or dry cleaning, limited.
       Laundry services.
       Low power radio services facility.
      Manufacturing, general.
      Manufacturing, limited.
      Media service.
      Medical cannabis pharmacy.
      Medical or dental laboratory.
      Medical service.
      Motel or motor lodge.
      Municipal use.
      Personal care service.
      Personal instruction service.
      Post Office.
      Printing and copying, limited.
      Printing, general.
      Protective service.
      Public utility substation.
      Recreation and entertainment, indoor.
      Repair service.
      Restaurant, fast food, with or without drive-thru.
      Restaurant, general.
      Retail, general.
      Supporting daycare, general, in conjunction with a preferredanother permitted use
      defined above.
      Supporting preschool, general, in conjunction with a preferred another permitted
      use defined above.
      Trade/vocational school.
      Transportation service.
      Vehicle rental.
      Vehicle repair, general, in conjunction with a preferredanother permitted use
      defined above.
      Vehicle sale.
      Veterinary service, but only when the use does not include grooming or boarding
      services.
      Warehouse, self-service storage, but only in conjunction with a preferredanother
      permitted use defined above.
      Wholesale and warehousing, limited.
      Wholesale and warehousing, general.
      Wireless telecommunications facility.
      (Ord. 1016, 6-5-2012; amd. Ord. 1085, 3-4-2014; Ord. 1396, 6-18-2019; Ord. 1418, 1-
      21-2020)

9-18G-040: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses are allowed in the LPCSD by conditional use permit only:
Auto, truck, RV and equipment storage.
Car wash.
Commercial vehicle and equipment repair, when use is not in conjunction with a preferred
permitted use defined above.
Daycare, general, not in conjunction with a preferred permitted use defined above.
Funeral home.
Garage, public.
Gasoline service station, when not an ancillary use for a convenience store.
Manufacturing, general, when the use is not in conjunction with a preferred permitted use
defined above.
Vehicle repair, general, when the use is not in conjunction with a preferred permitted use
defined above.
Veterinary service that includes grooming and boarding services.
(Ord. 1016, 6-5-2012; amd. Ord. 1085, 3-4-2014)

9-18G-050: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
A.    Minimum Number Of Required Architectural Design Elements For New
      Development Requests: The general architectural design elements and themes for
      the new retail, office and industrial development phases of the LPCSD are attached
      to this article for reference. Specifically, section 9-18G-090, exhibits B1, B2 and B3 of
      this article portray the preferred design elements for new retail and new office
      development uses. Section 9-18G-090, exhibits C1, C2, C3 and C4 of this article
      portray the preferred design elements for new industrial development uses. Each
      new retail, office or industrial development request shall incorporate at least five (5)
      distinct design elements defined for that proposed use as presented in these
      exhibits.
      1.      Retail/Office Phase:
              a.       Design elements similar to the previously constructed retail buildings
                       shall be used to add interest on newly constructed buildings.
              b.       Where an elevation of a building faces 12300 South, a minimum of ten
                       percent (10%) of the wall facing 12300 South shall be made up of or
                       covered with an element of interest. Examples of elements of interest
                       include, but are not limited to: concrete masonry units, ledge stone,
                       rock, brick, brick veneer, architectural grade concrete, or other unique
                       elements needed to conform to a user's specifically established
                       architectural design standards in other markets.
              c.       Preferred design elements for retail include:
                       (1)    Decorative EIFS detail.
                       (2)    EIFS or metal cornice trim.
                       (3)    Powder coated painted steel canopy.
                       (4)    Offset in plane at main entry.
                       (5)    Offset height at main entry.
                       (6)    Decorative score joint or imbeds in exposed exterior concrete.
            (7)    Fabric or metal awning.
            (8)    Raised exterior planter.
            (9)    Decorative art elements.
            (10)   Architectural grade exposed exterior concrete.
            (11)   Over fifty percent (50%) glass wall facing at least one (1) street,
                   measured horizontally.
            (12)   Brick veneer.
            (13)   Architectural grade exterior wall mounted light fixtures at main
                   entries.
            (14)   Exterior siding, rain screen, cladding.
            (15)   Shipping container elements or finishes to appear as shipping
                   containers.
     d.     Preferred design elements for office include:
            (1)    Architectural metal paneling.
            (2)    Architectural cement paneling.
            (3)    Ceramic tile cladding or architectural concrete finish.
            (4)    Decorative canopy at lobby entry.
            (5)    Architectural grade exterior wall mounted light fixture.
            (6)    Architectural concrete.
            (7)    Multi-story glass.
            (8)    Masonry or brick veneer.
            (9)    Decorative metal trim.
            (10)   EIFS field.
            (11)   Exterior siding, rain screen, cladding.
            (12)   Shipping container elements or finishes to appear as shipping
                   containers.
2.   Industrial Phase:
     a.     Design elements shall be used to add interest on the front and side of
            buildings with particular sensitivity to maintaining efficient business
            operations. The design themes may also accommodate other unique
            elements needed to conform to a user's specifically established
            architectural design standards in other markets.
     b.     Where an elevation of a building faces a major road but has no
            entrance onto such road, a minimum of five percent (5%) calculated
            on linear footage of the building wall shall be glass or other
            architectural elements of interest.
     c.     Maximum lot coverage shall be fifty percent (50%).
     d.     The minimum front setback shall be twenty feet (20') measured from
            back of street curb.
     e.     For every one thousand (1,000) square feet of industrial space, there
            shall be a minimum of 1.5 parking spaces.
     fe.    No building shall be taller than sixty feet (60'), measured from the
            finished grade. Finished grade calculations and elevations shall not
      be calculated from any applicable truck dock well elevations that
      penetrate deeper than the typical finished grades. Instead, elevations
      shall be calculated from the remaining finished grade of the site, e.g.,
      a car parking stall elevation.
gf.   All mechanical equipment shall be screened from view, either by
      enclosure or parapet wall.
hg.   Dumpsters shall be screened from view by concrete screen walls
      incorporated within the truck courts or enclosed within a concrete or
      masonry enclosure designed to be compatible with the overall project
      architecture.
ih.   Outside storage, where allowed, shall be located no closer than one
      hundred fifty feet (150') from any street (with the exception of the
      Shasta building located at 264 West which shall be no closer than
      eight feet (18') from curb back of street) and shall be contained within
      a secured minimum eight foot (8') vinyl coated chainlink fence with
      vinyl slats or masonry, metal, or concrete wall, designed to visually
      occlude the stored items from the street.
i.    Industrial Preferred Design Elements:
      (1)    Offset in Primary Wall Height.
      (2)    Offset in Primary Wall Plane.
      (3)    EIFS Trim.
      (4)    Aluminum Storefront Window System.
      (5)    Masonry Veneer.
      (6)    Decorative Canopy.
      (7)    Spandrel or Frosted Glass in Aluminum Storefront System
             Above Finished Ceiling Elevation.
      (8)    Powder Coat Painted Steel Canopy at Primary Building
             Entrance.
      (9)    Pre Finished Metal Fascia Trim on Top of Wall.
      (10)   Recessed Header Reveal Painted Contrasting Color.
      (11)   Architectural Grade Exterior Wall Mounted Light Fixture at
             Primary Building Entrance.
      (12)   Textured Concrete Tilt Panel Using Form Liner.
      (13)   Shipping container elements or finishes to appear as shipping
             containers.
      (14)   Decorative Reveal at Head of Aluminum Storefront Windows
             Painted Contrasting Color.
      (15)   Decorative Reveal at Top of Wall Panel Painted Contrasting
             Color.
      (16)   Decorative Reveals Formed in Concrete Tilt Panel.
      (17)   Glass Elements Above Finished Ceiling Height.
                     (18)    Insulated Glass in Aluminum Store Front System.
                     (19)    Concrete Tilt Panel.
                     (20)    Standing Seam Metal Roofing at Primary Building Entrance.
                     (21)    Overbuilt Element at Entry.
                     (22)    Hollow Metal Door and Frame Painted to Match Building
                             Elevation.

B.     Landscape Standards: The LPCSD shall be landscaped as follows:
       14.   Outdoor Art: Landscaping may include outdoor art or sculptures that are
             culturally enriching and socially acceptable. It is the intent that the artwork
             add to the theme and esthetic experience of the Lone Peak Business Park
             and not as propaganda or for marketing. All outdoor art shall be of a type
             and in a location that will not be a distraction or impede the view of those
             accessing the rights-of-way. All outdoor art shall not exceed fifty feet (50’) in
             height. (Ord. 1016, 6-5-2012; amd. Ord. 1396, 6-18-2019; Ord. 1426, 4-7-
             2020)

9-18G-080: SIGNAGE:
B.    Pylon Signs: A maximum of seven (7) pylon signs may be erected. One pylon sign
      will be located at the intersection of 12300 South 265 West, one at the future
      intersection of 12200 South Lone Peak Parkway, and one at the intersection of
      approximately 12000 South Lone Peak Parkway as conceptually outlined in section
      9-18G-090, exhibit D B of this article. The remaining two (2) pylon signs shall also
      adhere to the master signage guidelines of the LPCSD and must be approved by the
      Zoning Administrator for all appropriate safety issues. These pylon signs shall be a
      maximum of thirty feet (30') tall (in addition to the three feet (3') base) and no wider
      than ten feet (10') and shall identify the business park as well as up to ten (10) major
      tenants located within the park. Each pylon sign may be multi-tenant signs
      designed to be architecturally compatible with the LPCSD design themes as depicted
      in section 9-18G-090, exhibits D1 and D2 of this article.
C.    Monument Signs: Single or multi-tenant monument signage shall be allowed in the
      following locations:
      6.      Each subdivided lot within the LPCSD shall be allowed a monument sign on
              each street frontage. The height of each monument sign shall not exceed
              twelve feet (12') and the overall sign area shall not exceed sixty four (64)
              square feet, as described in section 9-18G-090, exhibit E of this article.
              Monument signs taller than thirty inches (30”) shall not be in the public-right-
              of-way or in the clear view triangles described in Section 9-27-080 of this
              code.
D.    Previously Constructed Or Existing Signage: All previously constructed or existing
      multi-tenant monument signage within the LPCSD shall be allowed a maximum of
      thirty (30) square feet of tenant advertising area and excludes the sign's
     architectural supports and design elements as described in section 9-18G-090,
     exhibit D1 of this article.
F.   Additional Directional/Informational Signage:
     1.     Additional tenant directional/informational signage may be installed to direct
            traffic, customers and truck drivers to individual tenant locations within the
            LPCSD. The maximum area of business name or logo on
            directional/informational signage shall be one square foot. The maximum
            area of the directional/informational signs shall be ten (10) square feet.
            Cabinet and temporary A-frames signs shall be permitted.
     2.     All pylon signs and monument signs shall be generally consistent with
            section 9-18G-090, exhibits D, D1 and D2 of this article. All pylon signs must
            also be approved by the Zoning Administrator to ensure clearance of sight
            distance requirements and compliance with these regulations. Any tenant of
            the LPCSD may locate on any pylon or pole sign within the LPCSD
            boundaries.
G.   Wall Mounted Sign Design Guidelines For Multi-Tenant, Single Owner or Single
     Occupant Buildings: Wall mounted signage shall be allowed usually above the main
     entry of each tenant space and shall incorporate the following design criteria:
     1.     The letters shall be individually cut from up to three inch (3") plastic or
            aluminum and/or painted directly on the exterior of the building. Individual
            pan channel letters mounted on a raceway shall be permitted.
     2.     Blade signs (projecting signs mounted on a building façade and protruding
            out perpendicular to the building face) shall be allowed at or near any
            feature entry of a building. Blade signs must:
            (a)    be at least eight feet (8’) above ground level at the lowest point,
            (b)    protrude no further than four feet (4’) from the face of the building,
                   and
            (c)    not exceed twenty-four (24) square feet in total area.
     3.     Signage will be allowed on all sides of the building, including but not limited
            to the name and/or logo of the owner of the building.
     4.     Where a tenant or building occupant has more than one entry, multiple signs
            will be allowed to define different divisions of the company and employee
            entries.
     2.     Signage will be allowed on all sides of the building that are visible from a
            street or drive.
     3.     Where a tenant or building occupant has more than one entry, multiple signs
            will be allowed to define different divisions of the company and employee
            entries.
     45.    Wall signs may be installed by individual businesses based on two (2) square
            feet per linear foot of building, or in the case of a multi-tenant building, two
            (2) square feet per linear feet of leased premises.
H.     Undeveloped Lot Signage: Future development lots shall also be allowed one lot
       identification sign. The lot identification sign shall be no taller than three feet (3')
       and no wider than two feet (2'). The lot identification sign shall include the Lone
       Peak Business Park logo and the individual lot number as portrayed in section 9-
       18G-090, exhibit D1 of this article.
J.     Pole Signage: One pole sign will be located in the vicinity of 12300 South and 222
       West, as conceptually outlined in section 9-18G-090, exhibit D2 B of this article. This
       pole sign will be a maximum of forty feet (40') tall and no wider than ten feet (10')
       and shall identify up to two (2) tenants located within the park.
N.     L Shaped Signs: L shaped signs will be allowed on street frontage to identify the
       business park. The L shaped signs shall not exceed twenty five feet (25’) in height
       from the top of the pedestal base. L shaped signs will be constructed similarly to
       the archway sign in section M (exhibit D), with a maximum horizontal member of 6’-
       0”.
O      Electronic Message Centers: The signs allowed above may incorporate electronic
       message centers, providing the electronic messages centers comply with Draper
       City Code section 9-26-090(D)
       (Ord. 1210, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 1396, 6-18-2019; Ord. 1426, 4-7-2020)

9-18G-085: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
Approval of this Commercial Special District text and accompanying exhibits constitutes
conceptual site plan approval of the office, industrial, commercial and retail components in
accordance with City ordinances. Site plans for development in the LPCSD may be
approved by the Draper City Zoning Administrator and may be forwarded to the Planning
Commission by the Zoning Administrator subject to the findings in section 9-5-090(H) of
this title. Except as otherwise provided herein, permits shall be processed in accordance
with the Draper City requirements, ordinances and procedures. All other development
standards set forth in Draper City Code that are not modified herein, shall apply, including
chapters 20, 22, 23, 25, and 32 of this title 9 and titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16 and 18.
Approval of this Commercial Special District text and accompanying exhibits constitutes
conceptual site plan approval of the office, industrial, commercial and retail components in
accordance with City ordinances. Site plans for development in the LPCSD may be
approved by the Draper City Zoning Administrator. Except as otherwise provided herein,
permits shall be processed in accordance with the Draper City requirements, ordinances
and procedures. (Ord. 1396, 6-18-2019; amd. Ord. 1426, 4-7-2020)

9-18G-090: EXHIBITS:
EXHIBIT A
EXHIBIT B
EXHIBIT C
EXHIBIT D
EXHIBIT E
EXHIBIT A
EXHIBIT A-1
  EXHIBIT B1
  LONE PEAK COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICT
  DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURAL THEMES
New development phases must incorporate at least seven separate design elements from
the preferred design elements as follows:
Retail Preferred Design Elements:
1. Decorative EIFS Detail
2. EIFS Cornice Trim
3. EIFS Field in Earth tone Color
4. Powder Coat Painted Steel Canopy
5. Offset in Plane at Main Entry
6. Brick Veneer in Earth tone Color
7. Fabric Awning
8. Architectural Grade Exterior Wall Mounted Light Fixture at Main Entries
9. Overbuilt Element at Entry
10. Offset Height at Main Entry
Office Preferred Design Elements:
1. Architectural Metal Paneling
2. Ceramic Tile Cladding in Earth tone Color or Architectural Concrete Finish
3. Decorative Canopy at Lobby Entry
4. Architectural Grade Exterior Wall Mounted Light Fixture
5. Architectural Concrete
6. Multi-Story Glass
7. Masonry Veneer in Earth tone Color
8. Decorative Metal Trim
9. EIFS Field in Earth tone Color
Conceptual illustrations of each of the preferred design elements are attached as Exhibits
B2 and B3.
(Ord. 1016, 6-5-2012)
  EXHIBIT B2
(Ord. 1396, 6-18-2019)
  EXHIBIT B3




  EXHIBIT C1
 LONE PEAK COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICT
 DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURAL THEMES
 INDUSTRIAL PHASES
New development phases must incorporate at least seven separate design elements form
the following preferred design elements:
Industrial Preferred Design Elements (Rear Loaded Buildings) Illustrated on Exhibit C2:
  1. Offset in Primary Wall Height
  2. Offset in Primary Wall Plane
  3. Reveal at Top of Wall Painted Contrasting Color
  4. Decorative Reveals
  5. Color Integrated Concrete Tilt Panel or Concrete Tilt Panel Painted Using Earth tone
Color Palette
  6. EIFS Trim
  7. Aluminum Storefront Window System
  8. Masonry Veneer in Earth tone Color
  9. Decorative Canopy at Primary Building Entrance
  10. Spandrel or Frosted Glass in Aluminum Storefront System Above Finished Ceiling
Elevation
  11. Powder Coat Painted Steel Canopy at Primary Building Entrance
  12. Pre Finished Metal Fascia Trim on Top of Wall
  13. Recessed Header Reveal Painted Contrasting Color
  14. Architectural Grade Exterior Wall Mounted Light Fixture at Primary Building Entrance
  15. Textured Concrete Tilt Panel Using Form Liner Painted Earth tone Palette
Industrial Preferred Design Elements (Front Loaded or Cross Dock Buildings) Illustrated on
Exhibit C3:
  1. Decorative Reveal at Head of Aluminum Storefront Windows Painted Contrasting
Color
  2. Decorative Reveal at Top of Wall Panel Painted Contrasting Color
  3. Decorative Reveals Formed in Concrete Tilt Panel
  4. Glass Elements Above Finished Ceiling Height
  5. Offset in Primary Wall Plane
  6. Insulated Glass in Aluminum Store Front System With Painted Kynar Finish
  7. Decorative Canopy at Primary Building Entrance
  8. Architectural Grade Exterior Wall Mounted Light Fixture at Primary Building Entrance
  9. Concrete Tilt Panel Using Multiple Earth tone Colors
Side Elevations - Industrial Building Preferred Industrial Design Elements Illustrated on
Exhibit C4:
  1. Standing Seam Metal Roofing at Primary Building Entrance
  2. Overbuilt Element at Entry
  3. Recessed Reveal at Top of Wall Painted Contrasting Color
  4. Hollow Metal Door and Frame Painted to Match Building Elevation
  5. Reveals Cast in Concrete Tilt Panel
  6. Insulated Glass in Aluminum Storefront System
  7. Concrete Tilt Panel Using Multiple Earth tone Colors
  8. Decorative Canopy
  EXHIBIT C2
EXHIBIT C3
EXHIBIT C4
(Ord. 1016, 6-5-2012)
  EXHIBIT D
(Ord. 1396, 6-18-2019)
  EXHIBIT D1
(Ord. 1016, 6-5-2012)
  EXHIBIT D2
(Ord. 1396, 6-18-2019)
  EXHIBIT E
(Ord. 1210, 6-7-2016)
