Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: November 10, 2022
Re: City Initiated Lone Peak Marketplace Freeway Sign – Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to DCMC Section 9-26-140 in order to amend the Sign Code in Draper City Municipal Code. The amendment will change the Freeway Frontage Designated Development Area designation for the property located at approximately 11479 South State St from Designation Area B to Designation Area A. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.   The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.   The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
5.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.   The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit.
5.   The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 11/3/2022 Cover Memo