15-1-075: Regulations for Public Property Adjacent to Parade Routes

The following apply to public property adjoining parade routes and staging areas for parades.

        A.       Time Restrictions: Prior to 6:00 p.m. of the day three days before a parade, no person
        shall claim, reserve, occupy or otherwise control public property, or attempt to claim, reserve,
        occupy or otherwise control public property either in person or by the placement of any object
        along the parade route. A non-exhaustive list of prohibited claiming activities include the placement
        of chairs, tents, sleeping bags, blankets, ropes, tapes, banners, vehicles, barricades or barriers of
        any kind; except if such placement is made by authorized and designated city personnel pursuant
        to a special event permit.

        B.      Reserving Public SpaceOccupy Public Property

                  1.      Occupy Public Property: After 6:00 p.m. of the day three days before a parade,
        until the conclusion of the parade, a person may, by the placement of ropes, chairs, sleeping bags,
        blankets, or other devices or barriers, claim or reserve or attempt to claim or reserve any public
        property as a position for observing the public parade.

                2.       Enclosed Shelter Prohibited: After 6:00 p.m. of the day three days before a
        parade, until the conclusion of the parade, no person shall place, erect, use or employ any
        enclosed tent or other enclosed shelter, including vehicles or trailers, on public property along the
        adjoining parade route or staging areas of the parade. The use of a shelter, which shall remain
        open on all four (4) sides, is permitted to provide shade or weather protection.

        C.      Damage or Obstructions Prohibited: No person shall obstruct public sidewalks, paved
        portions of streets, private drives, or occupy any unsafe position or occupy a position that may
        cause damage to public or private property.

        D.        Vehicle Parking Restrictions: Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary,
        from and after eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. of the day before the parade, and continuing until the
        conclusion of the parade, a person may park a motor vehicle, trailer, or tent trailer on the adjoining
        parade route.From and after six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of the day before the parade, and continuing
        until the conclusion of the parade, no person shall park a motor vehicle, trailer, or tent trailer on the
        adjoining parade route. Only motor vehicles or trailers that are entries in the parade may be
        allowed in the areas designated as staging areas. Any motor vehicle, trailer or tent trailer parked in
        violation of this section may be towed from the prohibited area at the owner's expense.

        E.       Reserved Spectator Viewing Areas: As part of the special event permitting process, the
        parks and recreation director or designee may authorize the permit holder or the city to reserve
        places for the observation of the parade and to erect and control such seating on such reserved
        public property.

        F.     Violations: Violations of this subsection may be enforced in accordance with Subsection
        15-1-090
