                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, Utah 84020



                                                 STAFF REPORT
                                                 March 15, 2022

To:                   Draper City Planning Commission
                      Business Date: March 24, 2022

From:                 Development Review Committee

Prepared By:          Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                      Planning Division
                      Community Development Department
                      (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:     Sax Spy — Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.:  USE-034-2022
        Applicant:        Derek Crane
        Project Location: Approximately 14364 S. Dreamfield Drive
        Current Zoning:   R3 (Single Family Residential, 13,000 square foot lot minimum)
        Acreage:          Approximately 0.16 acres (approximately 6,969.6 square feet)
        Request:          Approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit in the
                          R3 zone for private music lessons and cottage business for
                          online sales and creating arts and crafts for online sales.



SUMMARY and BACKGROUND
This application is a request for 0.16 acres located on the west side of Dreamfield Drive
(Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is requesting approval for
private music lessons and cottage business for online sales of photographs and creating
arts and crafts for online sales. The applicant is requesting deviations to the standards
outlined in Section 9-34-040 of the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC). Section 9-34-060
allows the Planning Commission to consider the requested use and make deviations to the
standards.


Sax Spy                                                             App. # USE-034-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request         1
The home was originally built in 1998 and is Lot 70 of The Fields at Draper Phase I
residential subdivision. The subdivision was developed as RM (Multiple Residential) zoning
and therefore has smaller lot sizes than what would be allowed today with R3 zoning.



ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the R3 zoning classification, supporting approximately
three dwelling unit per acre (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R3 zone is to “permit medium density residential
development without special mitigation requirements. This zone is intended to provide
incentives to foster residential development with little impact on its surroundings and on



Sax Spy                                                              App. # USE-034-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
municipal services, and to generally preserve the semirural character called for in the
density element of the general plan.” The entire property is surrounded by the R3 zone.

Proposed Use. The applicant is proposing a home occupation with three components. The
first will be private saxophone lessons for one student at a time. The second component
would be recording of online content for posting on Instagram or YouTube. For this
component a friend may occasionally help out with the video and audio production, but
would not be a regular employee of the business. The third component is shipping online
orders of various photos and art prints or stickers related to music. The applicant is
considering a fourth potential future use which would be to create 3-D tools for
saxophones and arts and crafts to be sold online.

As noted, the music lessons will be for one student at a time and will occur in the late
afternoons after school. Parents will either drop off their children and leave or wait in the
car in the driveway or on the street. The applicant is willing to have parents park in the
driveway if parking on the street is limited or becomes an issue. Additionally, no signs for
the business name or advertising are approve or allowed with this application for the home
or the vehicle.

Home Occupation. The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable
to all home occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

A.      Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
        resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
        the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

        For this business, the homeowners are the business owners and there may be one
        friend who helps out occasionally but would not be an employee of the business.

B.      Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained
        from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to Title 6, Chapter 11 of this
        code.

        The applicant will comply as needed.

C.      Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
        employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
        limited to one person.

        There will be no regular outside employees. One person may help out occasionally
        with some video and audio production. They would park on the driveway or the
        street.


Sax Spy                                                               App. # USE-034-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   3
D.      Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
        other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
        city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

        The applicant will comply with this requirement.

E.      Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two
        hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is
        allowed.

        The applicant will utilize items typically associated with a household and no large
        equipment. Chairs and music stands will be used for the private music lessons and
        regular audio or video devices for producing online content. The 3-D printer is small
        and kept in the house and tools used to create arts and crafts would be no different
        than regular household items.

F.      Modification of Structures or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
        exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
        dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
        benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered
        to provide parking required for a home occupation.

        There will be no alterations with this home business and no visible evidence that
        there is a business in the home.

G.      Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which
        is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
        magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

        This business is for music lessons, audio and video productions, and online sales of
        items shipped online and small arts and crafts created as part of the cottage
        business. Any noise associated with the proposed uses will be minimal and typical
        of residential uses.

H.      Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
        the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall
        not disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the
        residence is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit
        shall be used for the home occupation.

        This business will always be a secondary use to the home as a single family dwelling.
        The business will occupy approximately 180 square feet of the home, or 0.75% of
        the homes 2,400 square feet.


Sax Spy                                                                  App. # USE-034-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   4
I.      Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with Chapter 26, “Signs”, of this
        title.

        There is no signage proposed with this application. Any signage proposed in the
        future would have to comply with DCMC 9-26.

J.      Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
        parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
        which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
        adequate provision for drop off traffic.

        Students will come to the home for music lessons and parents will either drop them
        off or wait in their car in the driveway or on the street. There are no outside
        employees will be coming to the home for employment.

K.      Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
        vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
        would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
        shall be allowed on vehicles.

        The applicant parks their personal vehicle at the home, and they will only use their
        personal vehicle for business use.

L.      Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
        any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

        All of the applicant’s business activity will be conducted in the home. There will be
        no business activity in any yard.

M.      Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
        preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

        The applicant will have students coming to the home for music lessons. There is
        one student at a time for lessons. There are no group lessons.

N.      Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
        excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

        The utility demand for the proposed business will be in alignment with utility use for
        a normal residential use.

O.      Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
        within the primary structure on the property.


Sax Spy                                                                App. # USE-034-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
        All business activity will reside inside the primary structure on the property.

P.      Single-Family and Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted
        or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-
        family dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and Section 9-34-
        060 of this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an
        approval letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management
        company in the case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees,
        customers or business vehicles.

        This is a single family dwelling, and will comply with DCMC Section 9-34-060.

Q.      Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
        state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
        not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
        Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential
        certificate childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section
        R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are
        regulated and inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related
        home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

        This is a music lesson and cottage business and does not involve any food
        production or child care.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

E.      Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of
        a conditional use permit:
        1.     A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
               where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
               zone.
        2.     Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially
               mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
               These conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction,
               character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and
               other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such
               conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the
               conditional use permit.



Sax Spy                                                                 App. # USE-034-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
        3.       If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional
                 use cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable
                 conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional
                 use may be denied.
        4.       The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining
                 whether a conditional use permit application should be approved, approved
                 with conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be
                 imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
                 a.      The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
                         and requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
                 b.      The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
                 c.      Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or
                         existing development in the vicinity;
                 d.      The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                         surrounding area;
                 e.      The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
                         surrounding area;
                 f.      The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                         transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
                         screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian
                         and vehicular circulation;
                 g.      The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                         emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
                         proposed facility or use; and
                 h.      The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
                         welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property
                         in the area.
        5.       The Planning Commission may request additional information as may be
                 reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this
                 subsection E can be met.

In addition, Section 9-34-060 allows the Planning Commission to allow deviations from the
standards listed above. The sections reads as follows:

        “A home occupation listed in Section 9-34-030 or 9-34-050 of this chapter that does
        not conform to any of the development standards in Section 9-34-040 of this
        chapter may nonetheless be established through the issuance of a conditional use
        permit specifically for the desired alteration to those development standards.




Sax Spy                                                                App. # USE-034-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the home occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of
the home occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions has completed their review of the home occupation conditional use permit
submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire has completed their review of the home
occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Legal Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed their review of the home
occupation conditional use permit submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

1.       All requirements of the Draper City Fire Department, Building Division, and Business
         License Division shall be satisfied throughout the operation of the home occupation
         on the property.
2.       The home occupation is required to maintain approval and adequate licensure from
         any and all necessary agencies.

The findings for approval as are follows:

1.       Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
         anticipated detrimental effects.


Sax Spy                                                               App. # USE-034-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
The findings for denial as are follows:

1.      Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
        alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the home occupation conditional
use permit, as requested by Derek Crane, application USE-034-2022, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated March 15, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the home occupation
conditional use permit, as requested by Derek Crane, application USE-034-2022, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated March 15, 2022,
and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

1.      List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the home occupation conditional use
permit, as requested by Derek Crane, application USE-034-2022, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated March 15, 2022.




Sax Spy                                                              App. # USE-034-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   9
               DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                   Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield


  Brien Maxfield
                   DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City,                                             Digitally signed by Matthew T. Symes
                   ou=PW - Engineering,
                   email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov, c=US
                   Date: 2022.03.15 15:46:38 -06'00'
                                                                           Matthew T. Symes DN: C=US, E=Matt.symes@draper.ut.us,
                                                                                            O=Draper City, CN=Matthew T. Symes
                                                                                                     Date: 2022.03.15 17:07:59-06'00'


Draper City Public Works Division                                         Draper City Building Division


                                                                                                     Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                     DN: C=US,
                                                                                                     E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                    Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                                                                           Jennifer Jastremsky
Don Buckley         DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us, O=Draper City
                    Fire Department, OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                    Date: 2022.03.16 12:50:52-06'00'
                                                                                                     O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City,
                                                                                                     CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                     Date: 2022.03.15 15:39:56-06'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                               Draper City Planning Division



                                                                          Mike Barker                Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                                                                                                     Date: 2022.03.15 14:17:18 -06'00'


                                                                          Draper City Legal Counsel
                                    EXHIBIT A
                               DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
      EXHIBIT F
APPLICATION OVERVIEW
Overview of Proposed Use

Derek Crane
Sax Spy
14364 Dreamfield Drive
Draper, Utah 84020
3852284446
saxspysales@gmail.com

There are 2 reasons for requesting a Conditional Use Permit.

   1. Customers on the Property
         a. As a music teacher, 1 music student will attend a 30-60 min weekly private lesson in
            the home for personal instruction.
                 i.  Lesson times tend to coincide with after-school hours around 330-630
                     during the week, with some variation. Currently, only Tuesday and
                     Wednesday are lesson days with about 65% capacity.
                ii.  While some parents may drop off their child, it is expected that 1 additional
                     vehicle will be parked either on the street or in the driveway during each
                     lesson. If needed, students’ parents may be asked to park in the driveway
                     instead of on the street if parking is limited or becomes an issue.
               iii.  Noise has not been recorded as an issue, as instruments are acoustic in
                     nature. When asked, one neighbor has said they are not hearing any noise
                     and another has said he enjoys hearing music when he is outside.
         b. Video/audio Production for online content (such as Instagram and YouTube) with a
            friend.
                 i.  Friend may need to park in the driveway or on the street occasionally. Noise
                     and presence would be generally unnoticeable from the street or by
                     neighbors.
   2. Assembly and Repair, Limited/Cottage Business
         a. With an online presence, some products may be assembled or repaired in the home
            in a limited capacity (note: NOT manufacturing).
                 i.  For example, shipping online orders from an online store for Photo Prints of
                     vintage saxophones, art prints, and merchandise such as collectible pins,
                     stickers and other products. No noise, no pick-ups or deliveries by a mail
                     service, no brick and mortar store for shopping.
                ii.  Potential future use: 3D-Printing with hobbyist-level tools for small
                     saxophone products to be sold online. Noise is low and printer is designed
                     for home-use.
               iii.  Potential Future use: Creation of arts and crafts to be sold online, such as
                     wooden items with common hobbyist garage tools. The noise is limited and
                     closing the door is enough to manage sound, if needed.
Photo of space for Customers on the property




Photo of product examples for Limited Repair and Assembly
Example photo of Hobbyist 3D Printer on a desk



Please note: No HOA exists and Derek Crane is also the property owner.



 Analysis of Deviations
 Requested
In accordance with 9-34-040,
       ASSEMBLY AND REPAIR, LIMITED: A business where products are processed, fabricated,
       assembled, repaired, or packaged within the home. Typical uses may include computer
       assembly or repair, small appliance repair, packaging, wholesale, or fabrication of items.
       Assembly, fabrication, and repair is intended to be small-scale in nature where items are
       produced one at a time in small quantities or on a made-to-order basis, and does not
       include mass production of goods. Products brought to or from the home shall be small
       enough to be carried by one individual. Auto and small engine repair is not allowed. The
       business shall not create noise, odor, vibration, or other impacts discernible outside of the
       home. Anything that uses a material, a mixture of materials, or a quantity of materials that
       could be classified by the fire marshal or building official as dangerous or hazardous will not
       be allowed.

       COTTAGE BUSINESS: A business where products are created in the home. The products
       are unique in nature, such as handicraft, art, and jewelry. Limited food production can also
       be considered. Anything that uses a material, a mixture of materials or a quantity of materials
       that could be classified by the fire marshal or building official as dangerous or hazardous will
       not be allowed.

       PERSONAL INSTRUCTION SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in the provision
       of informational, instructional, personal improvement and similar services of a
       nonprofessional nature. Typical uses include art and music [instruction] schools, driving
       and computer instruction, gymnastic and dance studios, handicraft or hobby instruction,
       health and fitness studios, martial arts training, and swimming clubs.

No deviations requested at the moment.
