                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                               January 18, 2022

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: January 27, 2022

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, Todd.Draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     Dancer in the Desert Designs - Home Occupation Conditional Use Request
        Application No.: USE-0197-2021
        Applicant:        Stephanie B. Jackson, representing Dancer in the Desert Designs
                          LLC.
        Project Location: 13147 S. Tuscan Grove Cove
        Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft2 minimum lot size) Zone
        Acreage:          0.47 Acres (Approximately 20,473.2 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                          Permit in the RA2 zone regarding a cottage business that designs,
                          sews, and constructs custom made dance clothing and costumes.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.47 acres located on the southeast corner of the intersection of Golden
Pheasant Dr. and Tuscan Grove Cove, at approximately 13147 S. Tuscan Grove Cove
(Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned RA2 and is part of the Tuscan Grove
Subdivision. The house was constructed in 2010 and is approximately 6,200 ft2 in size.
The applicant is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved
to allow for a cottage business home occupation that designs, sews, and constructs custom
made dance clothing and costumes.

The mailed notice of the hearing misclassified the business as limited assembly and repair
business, this report updates the correct classification to that of a cottage business.



Dancer in the Desert Designs Home Occupation                       App. #USE-0197-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                        1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Low/Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This
category is characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, supporting approximately
two dwelling units per acre (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density development with little
impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
City’s semi-rural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl.” The RA2 zoning abuts the
subject property on the east and south, and is also found across both adjoining streets to
the west and north.




Dancer in the Desert Designs Home Occupation                             App. #USE-0197-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                   2
Home Occupation. The applicant is a resident of the home and desires to conduct a cottage
business home occupation that designs, sews, and constructs custom made dance clothing
and costumes for clients. The operation of the business is limited in area and scope to a
single room within the basement of the home (Exhibits E and F). The applicant’s responses
to the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit questions can be found in Exhibit G.

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are as
follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who
           resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be
           the primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

             The applicant lives in the home where the business will be located and will be
             the primary provider of the labor and work performed by the business.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from
           and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

             Upon approval of the Conditional Use Permit the application will be required to
             obtain a business license, per the standards outlined in Title 6 of DCMC.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be
           employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be
           limited to one person.

             The applicant resides in the home and has indicated that they comply with this
             requirements. There will be no employees.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all
           other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by
           city officials may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

             The applicant will be required to comply with this section should the need arise.
             Inspections are part of the business license review process.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred
           fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

             The applicant has indicated that they will comply with this requirement. All
             applicable storage will occur inside the home in the dedicated sewing and
             crafting space in the basement (Exhibit F). The total approximate area of the



Dancer in the Desert Designs Home Occupation                                App. #USE-0197-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                     3
             sewing and crafting room, including built in storage space for stock and
             materials, is five-hundred square feet (500 ft²). Outside storage of materials will
             not occur.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the
           exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a
           dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the
           benefit of or incidental to the home occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to
           provide parking required for a home occupation.

             There will be no exterior modifications made to the home. All business activities
             will take place inside the dwelling (see Exhibits E and F). No clients come to the
             home so the provision of additional parking related to the business will not be
             needed.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
           offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
           magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

             The operation of the business will not create any offensive odor, smoke, gas,
             vibration, magnetic interference, or noise that would interfere with the peace or
             enjoyment of others outside of the property.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
           primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not
           disrupt the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence
           is located. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used
           for the home occupation.

             The space being occupied by the business will only include approximately 8% of
             the overall floor area (not including area of the garage), which is much less than
             the 25% limit.

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this
             title.

             No signs have been proposed with the application, and there will be no vehicle
             signage.

        J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian,
             parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in
             which the use is located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with
             adequate provision for drop off traffic.



Dancer in the Desert Designs Home Occupation                               App. #USE-0197-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                     4
             No customers will come to the home, the applicant will travel to the clients to
             conduct appointments for measuring, fitting, and delivery as needed.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no
           vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which
           would not normally be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation
           shall be allowed on vehicles.

             No vehicles will be associated with the business outside of the business owner’s
             existing personal transportation. The applicant has indicated that they will
             comply with this requirement and that there will be no business related signage
             on the vehicle.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for
           any activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

             This business will not store anything outdoors.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited
           preschool facility shall not be considered customers.

             No customers will come to the home, the applicant will travel to the clients to
             conduct appointments for measuring, fitting, and delivery as needed.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
           excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

             This business will not increase utility demand in excess of that customary to the
             principal residential use.

        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained
           within the primary structure on the property.

             All business activities will take place inside the primary dwelling structure.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
           conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family
           dwelling, subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of
           this chapter. Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval
           letter from the respective homeowners' association, or management company in the
           case of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or business
           vehicles.



Dancer in the Desert Designs Home Occupation                             App. #USE-0197-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                   5
             This business fits within the allowable list of conditional use home occupations
             as a cottage business. The property is not a multifamily property and therefore
             is not subject to those provisions applicable to multifamily properties.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable
           state and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but
           not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah
           Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate
           childcare standards as set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et
           seq., as amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated and
           inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related home occupation
           under their jurisdiction must comply with these regulations.

             This business does not provide child care, is not a cottage food production
             operation, and is not a food related home occupation.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use
permit request is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
           conditional use permit:
           1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
              where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
           2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
              reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions
              may include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location,
              landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to
              the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set
              forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
           3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
              cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
              achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
              denied.
           4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
              conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
              conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
              achieve compliance with applicable standards:
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                   requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;




Dancer in the Desert Designs Home Occupation                           App. #USE-0197-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                  6
                c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                   development in the vicinity;
                d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
                e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
                f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                   transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                   landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                   circulation;
                g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                   emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                   facility or use; and
                h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of
                   the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
             5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
                reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
                can be met.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.




STAFF RECOMMENDATION




Dancer in the Desert Designs Home Occupation                             App. #USE-0197-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                   7
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

        1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                 site and any construction on the site, including permitting.
        2.       That the home occupation business be conducted as described in the staff
                 report.
        3.       No customers shall come to the home for business related purposes.
        4.       That the home occupation maintain compliance with all other ordinance
                 requirements for home based businesses.
        5.       Should any future signage be installed that it comply with DCMC Chapter 9-
                 26 and that a sign permit be obtained before installation.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
                 alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.       Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
                 alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.

MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit, as requested by Stephanie B. Jackson, representing Dancer in the Desert
Designs LLC, for a cottage business, application USE-0197-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 18, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Stephanie B. Jackson, representing Dancer in the
Desert Designs LLC, for a cottage business, application USE-0197-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 18, 2022, and
as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…




Dancer in the Desert Designs Home Occupation                          App. #USE-0197-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                  8
Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Stephanie B. Jackson, representing Dancer in the Desert Designs
LLC, for a cottage business, application USE-0197-2021, based on the findings and subject
to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 18, 2022.




Dancer in the Desert Designs Home Occupation                      App. #USE-0197-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                 9
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.
       1.      No additional comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
We have reviewed the subject home occupation conditional use permit (CUP) application
according to the standards of the Draper City Municipal Code. It is our understanding that the
applicant is requesting a Home Occupation CUP to design and construct custom dance costumes
and ballet tutus at their residence. Accordingly, we offer the following comments related to the
engineering findings, including the following:

   1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other
      utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as described.
      Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant
      impact to water, sewer, or other utilities.

   2. The number of trips generated by the homeowner/employee and clients will not have a
      detrimental impact to traffic in the area due no indication of clients visiting the residence.
      The applicant mentioned that she will travel to her clients.

   3. The applicant indicated that the design and sewing will take place at the house. It is not
      clear what room of the house is used as a workspace. Little-to-no impact to parking is
      anticipated with the proposed use. Onsite parking is recommended, especially during
      winter months when there may be excessive snow on the street and where on-street
      parking may be a safety issue.

   4. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare
      of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property or
      improvements in the vicinity.


Building Division Review.
       1.       No additional comments

Fire Division Review.
        1.      No additional Comments.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
  EXHIBIT F
FLOOR PLANS
       EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
December 10, 2021

Applicant: Stephanie B. Jackson

Dancer in the Desert Designs, LLC

Address: 13147 S Tuscan Grove Cove, Draper UT 84020



Statement of Compliance with Standards of DCMC 9-5-080(E).

I have reviewed section DCMC 9-5-080(E), at
https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/draperut/latest/draper_ut/0-0-0-30570, in its entirety.

I will be sewing and constructing ballet tutus and costumes in my home. There will be no changes
necessary to the exterior of the house, landscaping, utilities, parking, street traffic, pedestrian traffic or
any of the items listed in section -080(E)(4)(a-h).

As there are no changes, this business should not impact the economic or aesthetic qualities of the
surrounding area and will remain in compliance with objectives and requirements of the City’s general
plan. I attest that this home based business meets all the criteria as listed in DCMC 9-5-080(E).

Respectfully submitted,



Stephanie B. Jackson
December 10, 2021

Applicant: Stephanie B. Jackson

Proposed Use

Dancer in the Desert Designs, LLC

Address: 13147 S Tuscan Grove Cove, Draper UT 84020



Dancer in the Desert Designs, LLC is a small, one owner business. I have been constructing ballet
costumes for years and now have the opportunity to turn my hobby into a business. I have been
approached by multiple individuals who are interested in having me design and construct custom dance
costumes and ballet tutus. As such, I am applying for a home-based business license as a single member
LLC in the State of Utah.
I will not be having clients come to my home. I will travel to my clients. As such, I don’t anticipate that
there will be any extra traffic or parking at my home. This home business will not create any noise or
pollution. There will not be any signage or visible difference to my neighbors with the creation of this
business. As I will I be using one of the rooms in my house as my sewing and business area, there will be
no effects on the exterior of the home, yard or neighborhood. It is unlikely that my neighbors will be
aware that anything has changed.

Respectfully submitted,



Stephanie B. Jackson
December 10, 2021

Applicant: Stephanie B. Jackson

Dancer in the Desert Designs, LLC

Address: 13147 S Tuscan Grove Cove, Draper UT 84020



Analysis of deviations requested:

I have reviewed the development standards found in §9-34-040, located at
https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/draperut/latest/draper_ut/0-0-0-38494

No deviation from these development standards is requested in this application. The application
complies fully with these standards.

Respectfully submitted,



Stephanie B. Jackson
