Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: June 23, 2022
Re: Hohl Office Building Site Plan Comments: This application is a request for approval of a site plan for approximately 2.36 acres located on the west side of State Street, at approximately 11488 S. State Street. The property is currently zoned CC. The applicant is requesting that a site plan be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site as an office building with some retail.  The site is vacant at this time.
The application for the site plan was submitted on March 29, 2021.  In November of 2021, the a notice of intent to modify the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) to no longer allow height deviations was sent out.  Because this application was submitted and accepted before the code was changed, it is vested under the previous code so they can continue to request the height deviation. The findings are as follows: Deviation Request from DCMC Section 9-25-080 – Parking Row Dividing Landscaping
The applicant has stated the deviation request will comply with DCMC Section 9-25-080(H)(2)(a).
For approval:
1.   The site requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce parking; or
2.   The site would requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce parking in order to implement such landscaping; and
3.   Constraints of the site would necessitate the elimination of required parking spaces or reduction of site boundary landscaping buffers in order to facilitate such landscaping.
For denial:
1.   The applicant has not demonstrated to the Planning Commission that they comply with the deviation the standards set in the DCMC Section 9-25-080(H)(2)(a).
Deviation Request from DCMC Section 9-23-030 – Landscaping Modification
For approval:
1.  Is consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan or ordinance;
2.  Reflects a design that conforms to the requirements of this chapter to the greatest extent possible and offers alternative methods for addressing the landscape requirement for which a deviation is being requested.  Alternative methods may include additional fencing, berming and plant material than what would otherwise be required;
3.  Will not adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents;
4.  Will not adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public safety;
5.  Is justified by site constraints; and
6.  Is of high quality and integrates aesthetically with the design of the primary buildings on site and established streetscape.
For denial:
1.  Is not justified by site constraints.
Deviation Request from DCMC Subsection 9-22-030 – Building Height Deviation
For approval:
1.  The proposed development includes additional amenities or pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is otherwise required.
2.  The building is designed by a licensed architect in a specific architectural style, that utilizes facade materials differently than prescribed in subsection 9-22-040(F) of this chapter.
3.  The amount of primary materials used for each building facade exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
For denial:
1.  The proposed development does not include additional amenities or pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is otherwise required.
2.  The building is designed by a licensed architect in a specific architectural style, but does not utilize facade materials differently than prescribed in subsection 9-22-040(F) of this chapter.
Site Plan
For approval:
1.  The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is approved.
2.  A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
3.  The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4.  The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5.  The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
For denial:
1.   The proposed site plan does not conform to all applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
2.   The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the CR zoning district in which the site is located.
3.   The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
4.   The proposed development plans do not comply with the one or more of the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 6/16/2022 Backup Material