Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: April 14, 2022
Re: Jarvie Estate Phase 2- Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement for approximately 1.14 acres located at approximately 498 East 13800 South. The property is currently zoned RA1 . The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved from the RA1 zone to the RA2 zone and that a Development Agreement be approved to waive private street width standards. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6.   The Development Agreement complies with DCMC Sections 9-5-200(C) and (D).
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6.   The Development Agreement does not comply with DCMC Sections 9-5-200(C) and (D). ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 4/8/2022 Cover Memo