Draft minutes 12/09/2021
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2021 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:        Chairperson Andrew Adams, Commissioners Gary Ogden, Lisa Fowler,
                      John Van Hoff, Mary Squire and Alternate Commissioner Susan Nixon

ABSENT:               Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker, Alternate Commissioners DeLaina
                      Tonks and Tab Bingham


STAFF PRESENT:        Jennifer Jastremsky, Mike Barker, Brien Maxfield, Spencer DuShane,
                      Amie Salazar and Todd Draper

6:30 PM Business Meeting:


1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for October 14, 2021
       (Administrative Action) – Error, minutes previously approved at the November 18,
       2021 meeting.

2.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission meeting minutes for October 28, 2021
       (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to approve and the Planning Commission meeting
minutes for October 28, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Ogden.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Fowler, Van Hoff, Squire and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

3.     Public Hearing: Juan Diego Tennis Courts - Fence (Administrative Action)

On the request by Joe Colosimo, representing Juan Diego Catholic High School and the Catholic
Diocese of Salt Lake City a Conditional Use Permit for the purpose of erecting a new 10’ tall fence
to enclose new tennis courts that are planned for construction on an approximately 37.5 acre site,
located at approximately 402 E. Kimballs Lane, known as application USE-0147-2021, Staff
contact: Todd A. Draper at 801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Todd Draper, Planner stated the proposal is for the construction of a fence over six feet in height
up to 10 feet in height. He presented an aerial photo of the school and indicated the land use
designation is Cultural and Institutional. The property is zoned is A5. He presented a site plan of
the tennis courts and depicted the location of the proposed fencing. He noted the tennis courts
would be constructed under a permitted use. He indicated the tennis courts would be connected to
the parking lot to the north. The elevation plan showed the height and gates of the fence. He
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
December 9, 2021
Page 2
overviewed site photos of the property. He explained where the tennis courts and fencing would
be installed.

Commissioner Squire asked how tall the backstop is. It was mentioned it quite a bit taller than the
proposed fencing.

Chair Adams invited the applicant to speak.

Blake York, Applicant spoke from the audience, but the recorder did not pick up his response.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no speakers. He closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Ogden asked if the fence is an open chain link fence that people could see through
to the neighboring properties.

Todd Draper, Planner stated that the property line is not close to the proposed location.

Blake York, Applicant commented they will have wind screens to help with high winds.

Commissioner Van Hoff indicated it would be similar to the fencing at Corner Canyon.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden motioned to approve the conditional use permit, as requested
by Joe Colosimo, representing Juan Diego Catholic High School and the Catholic Diocese of
Salt Lake City, for the installation of 10 foot tall fencing, Application USE-0147-2021, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated November 29,
2021.

Second: Commissioner Van Hoff.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Fowler, Van Hoff, Squire and Nixon voted “Aye”.

4.     Public Hearing: Elite Carpal Tunnel Zoning Text Amendment (Legislative Action)

A request by Gary Reynolds, representing Rockworks Land Management, LLC, for approval of a
Text Amendment to change the use of ‘medical service’ from not permitted to permitted in the DC
(Destination Commercial) zone. Application: TEXTMAP-0166-2021. Staff contact is Maryann
Pickering, 801-576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager stated this text amendment affects the DC Destination
Commercial Zone, located between IKEA and Bengerter Highway. The land use designation is
also Destination Commercial. She presented an aerial map of the site and mentioned the applicant
is seeking to add a new use, “medical services” to one of the buildings in the zone for Elite Carpal
Tunnel. Currently, “medical services” is not permitted in the DC Zones.




                                                 2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
December 9, 2021
Page 3
Commissioner Squire asked if approving this use would medical services be allowed in other DC
Zones.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager responded that it would. She indicated this is the only are
area in the city with this zone. There are a few office buildings in this area.

Commissioner Squire asked if there is a reason not to allow medical services.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager stated there is not since “medical services” are typically
allowed in offices.

Commissioner Nixon asked if there were other regulation as far as parking, landscaping or other
property improvements associated with “medical services.”

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager stated the same standards apply and four parking spaces
per 1,000, similar to office, is required for “medical services.”

Gary Peterson with Elite Carpal Tunnel on behalf of Gary Reynolds, stated he would like this
amendment in order to bring in his business.

Chair Adams asked if about the difficulty to find space for his business use.

Gary Peterson commented it is challenging to find the type of space provided at the proposed
building. He mentioned they would bring an important service to the community.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing. No one spoke. He then closed the public hearing. He
mentioned the DC Zone was created to bring in IKEA and other similar uses. He believes it is an
asset to bring business like the one being proposed to this part of the city.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon motioned to forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the Elite Carpal Tunnel Text Amendment, as requested by Gary Reynolds,
representing Rockworks Land Management, LLC to allow Medical Services as a permitted
use in the DC Zone, Application TEXTMAP-0166-2021, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the staff report, dated November 30, 2021, as written.

Second: Commissioner Fowler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Squire, Fowler, Van Hoff and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

5.     Public Hearing: Vista 600 West Master Area Plan Amendment (Legislative Action)

This agenda item has been Continued
On the request of Howard Cooke, representing Gardner Company, for a Master Area Plan
Amendment on 15.24 acres of land located at 13645 South 600 West in the TSD zone and a Text



                                                3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
December 9, 2021
Page 4
Amendment to DCMC Section 9-14-110. Application TEXTMAP-0109-2021, Staff Contact is
Jennifer Jastremsky, (801) 576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Jennifer Jastremsky reminded Commissioners to complete make up trainings as they have three
weeks.

Mike Barker, City Attorney stated that they need to bring changes to the Planning Commission
bylaws in January. He requested any input from the Planning Commission and mentioned the City
Council would have to approve it.

6.     Adjournment – 6:51p.m.

Chairman Adams called for a motion to adjourn, Commissioner Squire made a motion to adjourn.
Chairman Adams asked if all were in favor, Commissioners Ogden, Squire, Fowler, Van Hoff and
Nixon stated, “Aye”.




                                             4
