MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, APRIL 14, 2022 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING
ELECTRONICALLY:              Chairman Andrew Adams, Vice Chairman Craig Hawker
                             Commissioners Gary Ogden, Lisa Fowler, John Van Hoff, and
                             Alternate Commissioners DeLaina Tonks, Susan Nixon, and Tab
                             Bingham

ABSENT:                      Commissioner Mary Squire,

STAFF PRESENT:               Amie Salazar, Fred Aegerter, Mike Barker, Spencer DuShane,
                             Brien Maxfield, Don Buckley, Jennifer Jastremsky, Maryann
                             Pickering, and Todd Draper

6:30 PM Business Meeting:

1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for March 10, 2022
       (Administrative Action)

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager, noted that an email should have been sent out earlier that
day with changes suggested by Susan Nixon. She indicated that the changes dealt with consistency
in titles throughout the minutes.

Motion: Commissioner DeLaina Tonks motioned to approve the Draper City Planning
Committee Meeting Minutes for March 10, 2022 with a few minor changes to provide
consistency in the titles, “chair” to “chairman” used in the minutes.

Second: Commissioner Lisa Fowler

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Ogden, Van Hoff, Fowler, and Tonks voted, “Aye”.

2.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for March 24, 2022
       (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to approve the Draper City Planning Committee
Meeting Minutes for March 24, 2022 with the title changes that staff has recommended.

Second: Commissioner Gary Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Ogden, Van Hoff, Fowler, and Tonks voted, “Aye”.

3.     Action Item: Jordan Maddocks I-ADU Deviation (Administrative Action)
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 14, 2022
Page 2
On the request of Jordan Maddocks, a deviation request to allow for an Internal Accessory
Dwelling Unit (I-ADU) on 0.82 acres located at approximately 1515 E. Bluff Point Dr., known as
application    VAR-0095-2022.       Staff     contact:    Todd     Draper,      801.576.6335,
todd.draoer@draperutah.gov.

Todd Draper, City Planner, explained that the request was a deviation for an accessory dwelling
unit (ADU). He shared that the property was low/medium density and zoned RR-43. He shared
that the deviation could be authorized if the following conditions were met under the approval of
the Planning Commission: The lot or parcel on which the primary dwelling is located is a least
20,000 square feet, no detached accessory dwelling units exist on the property, that the internal
accessory dwelling unit meets all other applicable requirements contained in Title 9 Chapter 31,
and at least two parking stalls be provided for the use of the internal accessory dwelling unit.

Mr. Draper presented the site plan. He pointed out that there was a one car garage designated for
the accessory dwelling unit along with an additional space next to it for parking that did not
interfere with any of the other existing parking on the site. He provided site photos of the home
and noted that they had not received any public comments.

Chairman Adams inquired why this was not included with the approval of ADU’s they did when
the State law was changed.

Mr. Draper clarified that when the city adopted the ordinance to allow ADU’s they restricted about
20% of residential land areas from having them due to narrow streets but allowed for a deviation
for larger lots that could hold additional onsite parking for the ADU.

Chairman Adams noted that this was not a public hearing. He invited the applicant up to share
thoughts and comments.

Jordan Maddocks, Applicant, indicated that they had ample parking on their property and did not
see a reason that parking would ever spill out into the street. He noted that there were about four
extra parking spaces on his property.

Commissioner Craig Hawker stated that he liked the deviation.

Motion: Commissioner Hawker motioned to approve the deviation as requested by Jordan
Maddocks for Jordan Maddocks I-ADU, application VAR-0095-2022, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated April 4, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Ogden, Van Hoff, Fowler, and Tonks voted, “Aye”.

4.     Public Hearing: My Backyard Playschool Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
       (Administrative Action)



                                                2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 14, 2022
Page 3
On the request of Sasha Johnson for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit preschool on 0.4
acres of property located at 621 East Hourglass Cir. Application USE-61-2022. Staff contact:
Jennifer Jastremsky, 801.576.6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Commissioner Fowler recused herself from this item.

Ms. Jastremsky provided an overview of the subject property indicating that it was within the
residential medium density land use designation and was zoned RA2. She indicated that the
applicant’s plan was to do a nature-based preschool that took place outdoors with up to 10 students,
3-6 years old, in each class. She noted the classes would run from 12pm to 3pm two to three days
a week. She presented the applicant’s drop-off and pick-up plan that included space for queuing
and noted the driveway could be used for longer parent visits. Ms. Jastremsky provided site photos
of the home and property.

Chairman Adams invited the applicant up to speak.

Sasha Johnson, Applicant, explained that there was side yard access to the backyard on both sides
of the home, but anticipated using the east side for access.

Commissioner DeLaina Tonks inquired what would happen with the preschool during inclement
weather.

Ms. Johnson stated that parents would be directed to dress their child for the weather. She noted
that if weather conditions became dangerous, she did have a basement play area to shelter children.

Commissioner Tonks asked how the 3pm pick-up time would flow with bus drop-off times.

Ms. Johnson pointed out that the 3pm pick up time was offset by at least 20 minutes for both
schools in the area. She indicated that the pre-school would only be running during the school year
and not year-round.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Kasey Dubler commented that he was a nearby homeowner. He expressed that he was in support
of his neighbor’s proposed preschool.

Chairman Adams called for additional comments. None were offered, and the public hearing was
closed.

Commissioner John Van Hoff asked if city code 9-34-040 indicating that activity should not take
place outside the dwelling applied or if a deviation was needed.

Ms. Jastremsky remarked that the conditional use permit would approve the deviation. She
clarified that a separate deviation was not needed.




                                                 3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 14, 2022
Page 4
Motion: Commissioner Van Hoff motioned to approve the home occupation conditional use
permit as requested by Sasha Johnson for My Backyard Playschool, Application USE-61-
2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated April
6, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Tonks

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Ogden, Van Hoff, and Tonks voted, “Aye”.

5.     Public Hearing: 3D Print Fly Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
       (Administrative Action)

On the request of John Watson for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit in the R3 zone for
a cottage business that utilizes a 3D printer to design and create items to sell online. The property
is located at approximately 459 E. Willow Moor Cove in the R3 (Single Family Residential, 13,000
square foot lot minimum zoning district. Staff contact: Maryann Pickering, 801.576.6391,
maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Commissioner Fowler rejoined the meeting.

Maryann Pickering, City Planner, indicated the land use designation for the property was
residential medium density and the zoning was R3. She shared that the applicant was looking to
do a cottage business that did not include any company vehicles or customers coming to the home.
She noted that the permit was required since the product was being made in the home.

Chairman Adams provided an opportunity for the applicant to speak.

John Watson, Applicant, noted that he and his sons had been doing 3D printing for several years
and wanted to go through the process of setting up a business and make money with it. He indicated
that they mainly created customized address plaques, remote car parts, miniature figurines, and
license plate adapters for cars.

Chairman Adams inquired how they planned to market and deliver the product.

Mr. Watson replied that business was all done online, and the products were shipped. He noted
that they have done several things to avoid having customers come to their home including having
a PO Box for returns.

Chairman Adams opened the meeting up for public comments on the item. No comments were
made, and the public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Hawker thanked the applicant for coming in and doing things the right way.




                                                 4
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 14, 2022
Page 5
Motion: Commissioner Hawker motioned to approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit as requested by John Watson, Application USE-072-2022, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated April 5, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Fowler

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Ogden, Van Hoff, Fowler, and Tonks voted, “Aye”.

6.     Public Hearing: Denney Subdivision Plat Amendment (Administrative Action)

On the request of Tanner Eldredge, a Subdivision Plat Amendment request to create a Flag Lot on
approximately 0.99 acres located at approximately 685 E. 12000 S., Known as application SUBD-
0205-2021. Staff contact: Todd Draper, 801.576.6335, todd.draoer@draperutah.gov.

Mr. Draper presented the subdivision application to amend the Denney Subdivision. He noted that
the subject property was in the low/medium density land use designation and RA2 zone. He noted
that the applicant was proposing to divide the original subdivision creating a flag lot. He indicated
that the 20-foot access to the rear lot would include a fire department turn around. He noted there
was a large canal on the east side of existing property which resulted in an easement from the front
property that ran back along the proposed rear lot.

Mr. Draper reviewed the street tree plan which included the addition of a tree along the front of
the front lot. He shared that the city had received one public comment on the item from a neighbor
who expressed they were not in favor of the amendment.

Commissioner Hawker asked if a full survey was required and if it had been completed.

Mr. Draper responded that they do require a full survey and that it had been completed.

Ms. Jastremsky clarified that a survey is done to create a subdivision plat at which point they
identify any overlaps or gaps in property lines. She noted those corrections are then made with the
plat or prior to the plat.

Commissioner Hawker asked if there were concerns about the traffic from the proposed driveway
and the roadway across the street from the site.

Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineer, explained that since driveways had low traffic volumes, they do
not consider it under potential conflicts that would warrant additional action.

Commissioner Fowler commented that flag lots did not appear to be uncommon in the larger area
surrounding the site.

Chairman Adams invited the applicant up to speak.




                                                 5
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 14, 2022
Page 6
Tanner Eldredge, Applicant, noted that the individual planning to purchase the back lot already
had plans drawn up for their home and it was well off the easement road for the canal even with
all the setbacks. He remarked that there were three flag lots along the road, two of which were
currently being built and were identical in size.

Commissioner Hawker asked if there were plans to keep the existing structure.

Mr. Eldredge indicated that they were currently unsure if it would remain or be demolished.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing for the item.

Christian Cole, 11963 South 645 East, noted that he lived adjacent to the subject property. He
expressed concerns that this would create a property directly surrounded by other developments
and that the banks of the canal went up far onto the property. He pointed out that about a year ago
a nearby property was trying to subdivide into three lots and it was denied. He noted that he did
not understand the lack of consistency with subdivisions in the area. He indicated he was also
speaking on behalf of Benjamin North who lived at 12132 South Comancheria Drive, who is also
opposed to the amendment.

Cameron Fullwood stated his family was the only people that used the easement to the right of the
property. He noted there was a water gate on the back east corner of the property that they use
daily during the summer. He indicated that they had water rights and needed to be guaranteed
access to the gate.

Nikki Ferguson, 565 East 12000 South, indicated that she was one of the three turned down in
2019. She stated that at the time they indicated that allowing the flag lots would be setting a
precedence. She pointed out the flag lots that were currently being built were created long ago but
were not being built on until now.

Nelson Glassett, 545 East 12000 South, commented that the flag lot currently being constructed
was miserable. He noted that himself and 22 homes west of him were all opposed to flag lots. He
stated that flag lots were not a common thing in the area and that the neighbors wished to maintain
acre lots and not have them split up.

Tyson Moore, 12041 South 645 East, expressed his agreement with the neighboring property
owners who had spoken. He stated that he would like to know where the property owner was
proposing to put their home. He clarified that the neighborhood would like to see consistency
applied and not have the precedence changed.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing portion of the agenda item.

Commissioner Hawker asked if all of the lots Ivory Homes built on were ½ acre lots or were they
a full acre. They are all R2, correct?

Ms. Jastremsky explained that the denial the neighbors were referring to, was a rezone request on
three properties located to the west of the subject property. She noted that the properties were


                                                6
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 14, 2022
Page 7
surrounded by one-acre lot zoning and were hoping to rezone to half-acre lots which was denied.
She noted that the subject property’s neighborhood had an array of both one-acre and half-acre
lots. She noted that half-acre lots were consistent with the properties directly adjacent to the subject
lot and half-acre lots were allowed under its current zoning.

Mr. Draper remarked that there was an easement to the canal on the property and the property
owners were not necessarily allowed to restrict access. He noted that the access road met the road
on the neighboring property and cut across the back corner where the water gate was.

Chairman Adams noted that precedence was not something that the commission really had to
consider. He pointed out that this property was also already in a zone that allowed for half-acre
lots.

Commissioner Fowler noted that the zone the subject property was in acted as a buffer zone
between commercial lots and larger residential lots.

Mr. Eldredge noted that he was aware people needed access to the water gate and did not have an
issue with that. He remarked that he did a lot of research before purchasing the property and felt
what he was proposing would better the neighborhood.

Chairman Adams commented that while he was not a big fan of flag lots, he felt that allowing the
flag lot was consistent and was not setting a precedence. This is not a rezone

Commissioner Hawker no matter what you do, some people will be mad and others will not. I
think it is consistent, it is different than the case that came in front of us prior.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to approve the Subdivision Plat Amendment as
requested by Tanner Eldredge for the Denney Subdivision, Application SUBD-0205-2021,
based on the findings and subject to conditions listed in the staff report dated April 5, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Hawker

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Ogden, Van Hoff, Fowler, and Tonks voted, “Aye”.

7.     Public Hearing: Irvine CSD Medical Text Amendment (Legislative Action)

On the request of Scott Irvine for a text amendment to DCMC Section 9-18N-020 in order to add
Medical or Dental Laboratory use as a permitted use in the CSD-IOP zone. Application
TEXTMAP-79-2022.            Staff      contact:    Jennifer   Jastremsky,     801.576.6328,
jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Ms. Jastremsky noted that the Irvine Office Park Commercial Special District (CSD) was adopted
in 2018 and was located south of Bangerter Highway and north of the prison. She noted that piece
of property within the zoning district that would be affected by the proposed change. She clarified
that the proposed amendment would add medical or dental laboratory as permitted uses within the


                                                   7
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 14, 2022
Page 8
CSD. She pointed out that medical offices were already allowed within the zone but that this would
allow for offices focused more on medical research than treating patients.

Chairman Adams invited the applicant up to speak.

Scott Irvine, Applicant, noted that it was an oversite that they did not include medical laboratory
uses when the CSD was first created in 2018. He stated that a potential tenant requesting medical
laboratory use was at the meeting and available to answer additional questions.

Chairman Adams opened the public comment period. No comments were offered, and the public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Hawker expressed that he was in support of the change.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden motioned forward a positive recommendation to the city
council for the text amendment as requested by Scott Irvine representing IOPLC for Irvine
CSD Medical Text Amendment, Application TEXTMAP-79-2022, based on the findings and
subject to conditions listed in the staff report dated April 5, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Tonks

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Ogden, Van Hoff, Fowler, and Tonks voted, “Aye”.

8.     Public Hearing: Norman Family Flag Lot Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments
       (Legislative Action)

On the request of Jeff Norman and Carla Hansen to amend the land use designation from
Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium Density and rezone the property from
RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot minimum) to R3 (Single Family Residential,
13,000 square foot lot minimum). The property is 0.84 acres in size and is located at approximately
192 E. 13560 South. Applications TEXTMAP-030-2022 and TEXTMAP-031-2022. Staff contact:
Maryann Pickering, 801.576.6391, maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Ms. Pickering provided an overview of the property noting that the land use designation was
residential low/medium density, and the zoning was RA2. She clarified that the applicant is
requesting to change the land use to residential medium density and the zoning to R3. She noted
that if the application is approved by council that the applicant would request to subdivide and
create a flag lot with approximately 13,000 square foot lots. She indicated that she received one
public comment from a neighbor who was concerned that townhomes would be built on the
property.

Commissioner Hawker asked can you get a fire truck to these properties.

Fire Marshal Buckley stated they can nose in and back up, so there would be no issue reaching the
property. And if they had to shut down 150 East, it wouldn’t be a big deal.


                                                8
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 14, 2022
Page 9

Chairman Adams invited the applicant up to speak.

Jeff Norman and Carla Hansen, Applicants, indicated that they have received support from
neighbors regarding their proposed changes. They noted that they intended to build their forever
home on the rear lot if they were allowed to split the property and create a flag lot.

Commissioner Hawker stated that he was in favor of the application.

Motion: Commissioner Hawker motioned forward a positive recommendation to the city
council for the Land Use Map Amendment as requested by Jeff Norman and Carla Hansen
from the Norman Family Flag Lot ZMA and LMA, Application TEXTMAP-031-2022, based
on the findings and subject to conditions listed in the staff report dated April 5, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Tonks

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Ogden, Van Hoff, Fowler, and Tonks voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Van Hoff motioned forward a positive recommendation to the city
council for the Zoning Map Amendment as requested by Jeff Norman and Carla Hansen
from the Norman Family Flag Lot ZMA and LMA, Application TEXTMAP-030-2022, based
on the findings and subject to conditions listed in the staff report dated April 5, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Ogden, Van Hoff, Fowler, and Tonks voted, “Aye”.

9.     Public Hearing: Jarvie Estates Phase 2 Zoning Map Amendment and Development
       Agreement (Legislative Action)

On the request of Andy Flamm for a Zoning Map Amendment for 1.14 acres of property from the
RA1 zone to the RA2 zone and a Development Agreement to waive private lane width standards
for the property located at 498 East 13800 South. Applications TEXTMAP-67-2022 and DA-68-
2022. Staff contact: Jennifer Jastremsky, 801.576.6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Ms. Jastremsky indicated that the subject property currently had access via a private dirt lane
running along the west side of the property. She stated there was previously a home on the
property, but it burned down a few years ago. She noted that the property was within the residential
low/medium land use designation and the RA1 zone. She explained that the applicant was
requesting a rezone to the RA2, which was like much of the land surrounding the property. She
stated the applicant is also proposing a development agreement which would limit the property to
becoming no more than two lots under section 2.2 of the agreement.




                                                 9
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 14, 2022
Page 10
Ms. Jastremsky explained that the applicant desired to have the access to the property change from
the dirt road to access via the existing private road belonging to Jarvie Estates. She noted that
under current code they cannot allow additional lots to be added to the private lane belonging to
Jarvie Estates since it did not meet current city width standards. She clarified that under section
2.5 of the development agreement the city would not require Jarvie Lane to be widened to full
private lane width standards if the applicant is granted access to use Jarvie Lane as a primary access
by the private road owner. She noted that if the applicant was not given access to Jarvie Lane they
would have to widen and pave the current dirt access road to subdivide the lot.

Chairman Adams invited the applicant up to speak.

Andy Flamm, Applicant, shared that he had concerns about having to pave the dirt road. He
indicated that he was told that even if he did not subdivide the property, he would have to make
improvements to the road to build on the property. He pointed out that his neighbor to the north
did not want the road paved or utilities up the lane and that road improvements would take out his
neighbors existing tree. He stated that the only way the subdivision was possible was to have access
off Jarvie Lane. He noted that he has worked with the owner of Jarvie Estates and planned to pay
to get access onto their private road.

Commissioner Hawker asked how trash cans were being addressed for the private lanes.

Ms. Jastremsky remarked that Jarvie Estates could contract with the city for trash services.

Commissioner Fowler commented that she did not understand what the concern was in the email
they received from Mr. Johnson.

Ms. Jastremsky clarified that his concern was the private dirt lane since his home is south of the
subject property and would still need the lane and easement maintained for him to have access to
his property. She indicated that it would need to be made clear to any future buyers that the land
and easement was on the property, and the buyer would have to maintain and allow access on it.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing. No comments were made, and the public hearing was
closed.

Mr. Flamm commented that he also believed that his property would be safer regarding fire truck
access if they were to have primary access through Jarvie Lane rather than the private lane on the
west of his property.

Commissioner Hawker asked if Mr. Flamm was receiving utilities from Jarvie Estate.

Mr. Flamm replied that was his plan. He indicated that he would have to go in and stub the line
for him to gain access.

Commissioner Fowler indicated she appreciated there was a development agreement.




                                                 10
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 14, 2022
Page 11
Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned forward a positive recommendation to the city
council for the Zoning Map Amendment as requested by Andy Flamm for Jarvie Estates
Phase 2, Application TEXTMAP-67-2022, based on the findings and subject to conditions
listed in the staff report dated April 7, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Tonks

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Ogden, Van Hoff, Fowler, and Tonks voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Tonks motioned forward a positive recommendation to the city
council for the Development Agreement as requested by Andy Flamm for Jarvie Estates
Phase 2, Application DA-68-2022, based on the findings and subject to conditions listed in
the staff report dated April 7, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Van Hoff

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Ogden, Van Hoff, Fowler, and Tonks voted, “Aye”.

10.   Adjournment

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to adjourn the meeting.


The meeting was adjourned at 8:08pm.




                                           11
