                                    Bangerter Crossing II
                                Fairfield Inn and Suites Hotel
                         Draper Development Agreement Application
                                          5 July 2022

1. Legal Description – provided in a separate document

2. Restrictions and Conditions:
       The project will be developed in compliance with the approvals, deviations, and
           conditions of the original Site Plan approval on May 28, 2020.

3. Master Plan Configuration – provided in a separate document

4. Statement of benefit and value of the development:
        The operation of a new hotel located in Draper City would provide positive economic
          value to the area and provide significant job growth within the City. As a Draper-based
          business, Wadsworth Development Group (WDG) is committed to the development and
          of quality projects with long term value to the community. Our partners at Woodbury
          Corporation have extensive experience and expertise in the hospitality industry and a
          highly regarded reputation for excellence.

5. Time Frame for development of the Project:
       We are prepared to immediately restart the design and approval process for the hotel
          with the Marriott corporate team responsible for approving franchise design. We
          anticipate the design process to take approximately 6 months. The design, permitting,
          and construction timeframe for this project is anticipated to be approximately 24 to 30
          months.

6. Process and Approvals after the Development Agreement is complete:
       A Building Permit would be required: The full building design construction documents are
           expected to be completed in approximately 6 months.
       A minor revision to the sequencing of the utility installation would be prepared and
           submitted to Planning and Engineering for review and approval. The previously approved
           site plan documents assumed that the Office Building would be constructed first. Instead,
           the construction of the Fairfield is planned to commence prior to the Office Building
           requiring that utilities would extended first to the Hotel and then stubbed to the Office
           parcel.

7. Provisions for Enforcement of the Terms and Conditions of the DA:
       The project would be designed and constructed in accordance with the previous
           approvals, deviations, and City Codes and Ordinances.

8. Time Limitation: 6 Years proposed to submit for a Building Permit

9. Other Terms: None Anticipated
