Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: March 15, 2022
Re: Draper 138 2 – Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment for approximately 1.44 acres located on the north side of 13800 South, at approximately 231 East 13800 South. The properties are currently zoned RA1 and OR . The applicant is requesting that a Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site for retail uses.
The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their February 24, 2022 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation on a 4-1 vote for both applications.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6.   The proposal complies with the Land Use Map Amendment standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
For denial:
1.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6.   The proposal does not comply with the Land Use Map Amendment standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(F). ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1532 3/7/2022 Cover Memo Ord 1533 3/7/2022 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 3/7/2022 Cover Memo