Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: July 14, 2022
Re: Holiday Oil Landscaping – Deviation Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Deviation for approximately 0.95 acres located on the north side of 12300 South, at approximately 293 East 12300 South. The property is currently zoned CR . The applicant is requesting that a Deviation  be approved to eliminate side perimeter landscaping standards. The findings are as follows: Fr approval
1.   The proposal is consistent with the purpose of DCMC Chapter 9-23 and any applicable master plan or ordinance.
2.   The proposal reflects a design that conforms to the requirements of DCMC Chapter 9-23 to the greatest extent possible and offers alternative methods for addressing the landscape requirement for which a deviation is being requested.
3.   The proposal will not adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents.
4.   The proposal will not adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public safety.
5.   The proposal is justified by site constraints.
6.   The proposal is of high quality and integrates aesthetically with the design of the primary buildings on site and established streetscape.
7.   This deviation does not approve any other deviations to DCMC and the applicant will have to obtain a site plan amendment approval for the redevelopment.
For denial:
1.   The proposal is not consistent with the purpose of DCMC Chapter 9-23 and any applicable master plan or ordinance.
2.   The proposal does not reflect a design that conforms to the requirements of DCMC Chapter 9-23 to the greatest extent possible and does not offer alternative methods for addressing the landscape requirement for which a deviation is being requested.
3.   The proposal will adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents.
4.   The proposal is not justified by site constraints.
5.   The proposal is not of high quality and while it does integrates aesthetically with the design of the primary buildings on site and established streetscape, it will not integrate with the property when it is redeveloped.  ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 7/7/2022 Cover Memo