Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                              shannon <shannon_sandberg@msn.com>
Sent:                              Tuesday, August 9, 2022 4:10 PM
To:                                Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                           Siempre parking lot Amendment
Attachments:                       Image.jpeg; Image.jpeg; Image.jpeg




Dear Draper Planning Commission-

I am writing to you concerning Siempre reception center’s amendment regarding expanding their parking lot.

My backyard overlooks the 18th hole of the South mountain golf course. Siempre’s reception center and gazebo have
become my new backyard. During Covid, when Siempre was being discussed by the zoning commission and at the city
council meeting, we had three minutes over a zoom call to let you know our concerns. In addition to the negative impact
of its noise and light, one of our main concerns was how all the guests would fit in the parking lot. If parking overflowed
onto the street, this would impact the bike lanes on Mike Weir Drive. If the bike lanes are blocked they either go on the
sidewalk, which affects the frequent walkers, or the car lanes, which affects traffic. This has indeed already been an issue.
Last Thursday August 4, the parking lot was filled, and cars parked on both sides of Mike Weir drive. There is a steady
stream of cyclists, walkers and runners from dawn until way after dark along Mike Weir. I noticed that today Siempre put
up “no parking” signs along the road in front of their park strip, but where will the overflow cars now park? I’m not
particularly excited to have more construction noise around Siempre, but not having enough parking spots negatively
impacts the outdoor enthusiasts that frequently bike or exercise along Mike Weir. I have attached images of cars along the
street from August 4.

I previously mentioned the concern the neighbors and I shared with the city council and zoning committee about the lights
and noise that would be coming from Siempre. Since this reception center has opened, it is like having a nightclub in our
backyard. The lights are on all night long, shining into our windows, making it difficult to sleep. I can hear the noise from
people, dj’s and especially the loud music in my house, even with all the windows shut and over the volume of my TV. I
compare it to when you are at a traffic signal and an obnoxiously loud car comes up next to you with the bass thumping
and the volume full blast. Now imagine that for three or more hours straight in your home. There are speakers around the
gazebo that we hear not only during the event. The cleaning crew often accidentally turns the outdoor speakers on at 6:00
a.m. when they come to clean. When the DJ’s come set up we hear the music blasting sometimes hours before the event
starts. Singers coming to prepare for a special musical number have come early Sunday morning and I hear them practice
over and over again for hours. Especially on a Sunday when I just want to relax and have peace and quiet, it is so
frustrating to have the music of a gender reveal party or wedding reception blasting into my home. In other words, I no
longer have peace in my home when there are events at this reception center. It has been devastating to us and the
neighbors.

I know not much can be done to help my cause with the noise and the lights that have negatively impacted the peace and
quiet of our home and neighborhood. I know our voices and needs were not enough to outweigh the financial benefits of
Siempre to that of the county’s failing golf course. But I sincerely ask you to consider the negative impact the lack of
parking has on all the many bikers, walkers and traffic along Mike Weir Drive, and vote to make Siempre expand their
parking lot.

Thank you for your time and consideration,

Shannon Sandberg



                                                              1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                           Eric Judd <ejudd14@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Wednesday, August 10, 2022 8:30 AM
To:                             Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                        Siempre Parking on Mike Weir Dr


Hey Jennifer,
It was recommended that I email you to contact the planning commission regarding parking from Siempre on
Mike Drive. Unfortunately, I'll be out of town for the next two Thursday commision meetings where this will be
discussed.

In short, I don't want street parking on Mike Weir Dr to become normalized, especially as Siempre grows to
hold more than one event per week.

My family moved to The Ridge off of Mike Weir in 2020 to get away from crowded Sugarhouse. In SLC I've
had my share of car collisions while riding my bicycle on busy SLC streets. Now I enjoy riding my road bike on
our Draper roads a lot.

My ask: Let's find a way to preserve quieter neighborhoods and roads that aren't not packed with parked cars. I
hope we first consider other options before dismissing the promise to build the green, paver parking. To my
knowledge there haven’t been efforts to shuttle people from the Draper amphitheater, as was previously agreed
with the City Council. Please consider this, along with the green pavers (which Siempre advertised so elegantly)
as a first solution.

What I don't want...a Mike Weir Dr that is filled with cars parallel parking, car door opening as I pass, and 20-
something year-old groomsmen speeding to and from parties after sharing their music with me all night. We
moved here to enjoy the beauty and stillness of Corner Canyon, Potato Hill, the BST, and preserved open
spaces. Let's work toward development that preserves the things that make Draper so unique.

Feel free to let me know of any questions about my experience. I'm always available to offer calm, kind
conversation.


THANKS!!!

ERIC JUDD | (801) 624-0544




                                                         1
