                                   Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                             September 1, 2022

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: September 22, 2022

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:      City Initiated Temporary Parking Ordinance –Text Amendment Request
         Application No.: TEXTMAP-176-2022
         Applicant:        Draper City
         Project Location: City Wide
         Current Zoning: City Wide
         Acreage:          City Wide
         Request:          Request for approval of a Text Amendment for the purpose of
                           amending parking regulations within Draper City Municipal Code
                           regarding parking area location, design, and construction of
                           temporary parking and parking for recreational vehicles, and
                           trailers.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to amend parking
regulations within the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) regarding parking area location,
design, and construction. The proposed amendments are primarily related to parking for
temporary uses, special events, recreational vehicles, and trailers.



ANALYSIS
Parking. The text of the proposed changes can be found in Exhibit B. Table 1 provides an
analysis of the current standards and the proposed changes to the standards.




City Initiated Temporary Parking Ordinance                       App. # TEXTMAP-176-2022
Text Amendment Request                               1
 Table 1               Parking Lot Design Requirements
 Standard              DCMC Requirements      Proposal                   Notes
 9-25-050(D):          Exempt from paving     Make subject to new
 Parking               and landscaping        temporary parking
 Location:             requirements.          surfacing
 Temporary                                    requirements
 Parking
                       No provision requiring    Clarify that            Eliminates potential for
                       temporary parking to      temporary parking       long term use without
                       cease after use or        can only be used for    complying with paving
                       event is over.            the same time period    standards for
                                                 of the temporary use    permanent parking.
                                                 permit or special
                                                 event permit.
                       No requirement to         Includes a              Helps to ensure that
                       mark parking rows or      requirement to mark     rows and aisles are not
                       drive aisles.             the rows and drive      blocked in an
                                                 aisles.                 emergency.
 9-25-050(G):          Recreational vehicles     Creates new design      Location remains the
 Parking               and trailers parked in    and construction        same. Additional
 Location:             residential zones must    criteria for            clarification that
 Parking of            be on a hard surface      recreational vehicle    parking for utility
 Recreational          and be located behind     and trailer parking     trailers, etc. must meet
 Vehicles              the front wall plane of   areas in Subsection     same standard.
                       the primary structure     9-25-080.
                       (house).
 9-25-                 All parking spaces and    Creates separate        1. Permanent parking
 080(J):Parking        areas required to be      categories for paving   to be paved with
 Area Design           paved with asphalt or     and surfacing of each   asphalt or concrete; 2.
 and                   concrete, inclusive of    type of parking area.   Temporary Parking to
 Construction:         recreational vehicles     Clarifies requirement   include any surface
 Paving                and trailers.             to manage storm         that can be maintained
                       Unfinished parking        water generated         to eliminate dust, mud
                       permitted with            from each type of       and weeds; 3.
                       temporary use and         parking area.           Recreational vehicles
                       special events.                                   and trailers can be
                                                                         parks on asphalt,
                                                                         concrete, or brick, rock,
                                                                         or permeable pavers.




City Initiated Temporary Parking Ordinance                           App. # TEXTMAP-176-2022
Text Amendment Request                            2
Criteria For Approval.
A Text and Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in
Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

         2. Text Amendments:
              a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                  of the city's general plan;
              b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                  zoning ordinance;
              c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                  and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
              d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
                  of this title or the general plan;
              e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
                  and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                  represents an overall community benefit; and
              f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
                  professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Special Event Coordinator Review. The Draper City Special Events Coordinator has completed
their review of the Text Amendment submission. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



City Initiated Temporary Parking Ordinance                           App. # TEXTMAP-176-2022
Text Amendment Request                           3
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings listed
below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:

    1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
       city's general plan;
    2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
       ordinance;
    3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there
       is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
    4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
       this title or the general plan;
    5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
       determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represent
       an overall community benefit; and
    6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of
       urban planning, design, and engineering.

The findings for a negative recommendation are as follows:

    1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
       the city's general plan;
    2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the
       zoning ordinance;
    3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and
       there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
    4. The proposed amendment could create a conflict with another section or part of
       this title or the general plan;
    5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been determined to be
       detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare or do not represent an overall
       community benefit; and
    6. The proposed text amendment is not consistent with current best practices of
       urban planning, design, and engineering.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the City Initiated Temporary Parking Ordinance Text Amendment , as



City Initiated Temporary Parking Ordinance                     App. # TEXTMAP-176-2022
Text Amendment Request                       4
requested by Draper City, representing application TEXTMAP-176-2022, based on the
findings listed in the Staff Report dated September 1, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the City Initiated Temporary Parking Ordinance Text Amendment , as
requested by Draper City, representing application TEXTMAP-176-2022, based on the
findings listed in the Staff Report dated September 1, 2022 and as modified by the
following:

         1. List any additional changes, findings and/or conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the City Initiated Temporary Parking Ordinance Text Amendment , as requested
by Draper City, representing application TEXTMAP-176-2022, based on the findings listed in
the Staff Report dated September 1, 2022.




City Initiated Temporary Parking Ordinance                        App. # TEXTMAP-176-2022
Text Amendment Request                         5
                                         EXHIBIT A
                                    DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1. No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1. No additional comments provided.

Legal Division Review.

       1.   No additional comments provided.

Special Event Coordinator Review.

       1. The proposed changes related to temporary parking areas looks great as
          written.
                                      EXHIBIT B
                               PROPOSED ORDINANCE TEXT



9-25-050: PARKING LOCATION:

…

    D. Temporary Parking:

         1. Temporary parking, when approved as part of a temporary use or special event,
            shall be exempt from the landscaping and paving requirements of this chapter,
            but must comply with all access and surfacing requirements for fire and public
            safety purposes. Temporary parking may only be utilized for parking during the
            same time period that the temporary use permit or special event permit is
            issued for.

         2. The city may allow a temporary use or special event to occupy or use parking
            areas ordinarily required for a permanent use if it is found that the temporary
            use will not cause a shortage in parking needed for the permanent use.

         3. Parking rows and drive access aisles associated with temporary parking shall be
            clearly marked and comply with the minimum size requirements of sections 9-
            25-070 and 9-25-100, table 9-25-2.

…

    G. Parking Of Recreational Vehicles and Trailers In Residential Zones: Personal
       recreational vehicles, including, but not limited to, trailers, boats, travel trailers,
       boats, watercraft, utility trailers, and motor homes parked in residential zones shall
       be parked on a hard surfaced area behind the front wall plane of the primary
       structure on the same property and conform to the design and construction
       requirements of subsection 9-25-080. Where Parking for such vehicles within
       residential developments contain approved with off-street recreational vehicle
       parking areas shall, parking of recreational vehicles shall be allowed only within
       those recreational vehicle parking designated areas only.

…



9-25-080: PARKING AREA DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:

…

    J.   Paving: Every area used as a parking space or area shall be paved or surfaced as
         follows: with asphaltic cement or concrete, be maintained so as to eliminate dust or
    mud, and shall be graded so as to drain and dispose of all surface water according
    to city standards. Surface water drainage shall not cross a sidewalk or pedestrian
    walkway. Such surfacing shall also be required for spaces or areas used for the
    storage of vehicles, recreational vehicles, and trailers. Unfinished parking areas may
    be permitted in association with a temporary use or special event only.

    1. Permanent parking areas shall be; paved with asphaltic cement or concrete,
       maintained so as to eliminate dust or mud, and graded so as to drain and
       dispose of all surface water according to city standards. Surface water drainage
       from parking lots shall not cross a public sidewalk or walkway.

    2. The surface of temporary parking areas shall be maintained so as to eliminate
       dust, mud, and weeds or other vegetation that present a fire hazard or other
       danger to the public. Surface runoff of storm water shall be contained on site in
       accordance with applicable city standards.

    3. Parking areas for trailers, travel trailers, boats, watercraft, utility trailers, and
       motor homes in residential zones shall be constructed of asphalt, concrete,
       brick, rock, or permeable pavers and shall be maintained free of weeds, loose
       dust, and mud. The parking area shall be graded so as to drain and dispose of all
       surface water according to city standards.

…
