Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: September 8, 2022
Re: Lone Peak Business Park CSD Modifications. Comments: Price Real Estate owns several of the properties within the Lone Peak Commercial Special District and has done a majority of the development in the CSD.  In 2012, the applicant proposed a commercial special district on the properties which was subsequently approved in June, 2012.  Since the approval, several buildings have been constructed within the boundaries of the CSD.  There are currently some vacant lots and the applicant has requested this text amendment to modify some of the standards which may be outdated or not compatible with current development processes.  A similar text amendment for the boundaries of the CSD was approved by City Council July 2019.  That text amendment was requested by the applicant to modify some of the standards which may have been outdated or not compatible with current development processes.  Specifically design standards and required materials and signs are proposed to be updated.  The applicant has a companion application to be heard at this meeting also to expand with boundaries of the CSD with one property across Lone Peak Parkway.  That application is for a land use and zoning map amendment. The findings are as follows: For a positive recommendation:
1.  T hat Section 9-5-060(E) provides for and outlines the process for amending the text of the DCMC.
2.  That this text amendment does not compromise any of the 6 factors listed in Section 9-5-060(E)(2).
3.   That the proposed text change is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the City’s General Plan.
For a negative recommendation are as follows:
1.   That this text amendment compromises one or more of the 6 factors listed in Section 9-5-060(E)(2).
2.   That the proposed text change is not consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the City’s General Plan. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 9/1/2022 Backup Material