                                    ORDINANCE NO. 1538

       AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING SECTION 11-6 OF THE
       DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO EXCAVATION
       PERMITS AND MAKING OTHER TYPOGRAPHICAL AND DE MINIMIS
       CORRECTIONS IN CODE SECTIONS 5-5-100, 8-1-120, 8-1-190, 8-1-250, 8-
       1-270, 8-1-280, 8-5-070, 8-5-120, AND 10-3-020.

       WHEREAS, Draper City, hereinafter referred to as the "City," has established municipal
code regulating the issuance of excavation permits in the Draper City Municipal Code Section
11-6 Excavation Permits; and

       WHEREAS, the City desires to change the code reference from “excavation permit” to
“encroachment permit” and update the permitting requirements for work within the city public
way and on city property; and

        WHEREAS, the proposed amendments comply with state law and benefit the health,
safety, and welfare of Draper residents.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER
CITY, STATE OF UTAH:

       Section 1.     Amendment. Draper City Municipal Code 11-6, 5-5-100, 8-1-120, 8-1-
190, 8-1-250, 8-1-270, 8-1-280, 8-5-070, 8-5-120, and 10-3-020 are hereby amended as shown in
Exhibit A attached hereto.

        Section 2.     Correction of Editing Errors. The City Attorney is authorized to correct
any punctuation, spelling, formatting, or similar errors prior to submitting this Ordinance to
Sterling Codifiers.

        Section 3.     Severability Clause. If any part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of
this Ordinance and all provisions, clauses and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       Section 4.     Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final
passage.

     PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, ON THIS ____th DAY OF APRIL 2022.

ATTEST:                                              DRAPER CITY


By:____________________________                      By:_______________________________
   Laura Oscarson, City Recorder                        Mayor Troy K. Walker
VOTE TAKEN:             YES   NO

Councilmember Lowery

Councilmember Green

Councilmember Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker
EXHIBIT A
CHAPTER 6 EXCAVATIONENCROACHMENT PERMITS
11-6-010: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: Any person who makes application for a permit.
BUSINESS: Any place in the city in which there is conducted or carried on principally or
exclusively any pursuit or occupation for the purpose of gaining a livelihood.
CITY: Draper City, a municipal corporation of the state of Utah.
CITY ENGINEER: The Draper City engineer, or his/her authorized representative.
EMERGENCY: Any unforeseen circumstances or occurrence, the existence of which
constitutes a clear and immediate danger to persons or property, or which causes
interruption of utility services.
ENGINEERING REGULATIONS, SPECIFICATIONS, AND DESIGN STANDARDS: The
latest version of the engineering regulations, or standard specifications for construction
published by the city engineer and/or adopted by the city.
FAILURE: A work site restoration which fails to meet city engineering regulations, or
which results in a deteriorated or substandard condition within the duration of the
warranty period. Failure may be settlement of surfaces, deterioration of materials, or
other surface irregularities. Measurement of failure shall be further defined in the
engineering regulations.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing utility systems or utility services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the public right of way.
MANUAL ON UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: The "Manual On Traffic
Control Devices For Streets And Highways" as published by the U.S. department of
transportation and/or the federal highway administration.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a system and directly or through
one or more affiliates owns a controlling interest in such system, or who otherwise
controls or is responsible for the operation of such a system.
PERMITTEE: Any person which has been issued a permit and thereby has agreed to
fulfill the requirements of this chapter.
PERSON: Means and includes any natural person, partnership, firm, association,
provider, corporation, company, organization, or entity of any kind.
PIPE DRIVEWAY: A driveway approach which uses a pipe or other means to bridge the
gutter.
PRIVATE DRAIN LINE: A pipe installed solely for the transmission of water collected or
generated on private property such as drainage, spring, or storm water, or condensate
into the public drainage system.
PROPERTY OWNER: Person or persons who have legal title to property and/or
equitable interest in the property, or the ranking official or agent of a company having
legal title to property and/or equitable interest in the property.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, system lessee, or public utility
company.
PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANY: Any company subject to the jurisdiction of the Utah state
public service commission, or any mutual corporation providing gas, electricity, water,
telephone, or other utility product or services for use by the general public.
PUBLIC WAY: Means and includes all public rights of way and easements, public
footpaths, walkways and sidewalks, public streets, public roads, public highways, public
alleys, and public drainageways. It does not, however, include utility easements not
within public ways of the city.
RESELLER: Refers to any person that provides service over a system for which a
separate charge is made, where that person does not own or lease the underlying
system used for the transmission and does not install any system in the rights of way.
RESIDENT: The person or persons currently making their home at a particular dwelling.
STORM DRAIN: A dedicated pipe, conduit, waterway, or ditch installed in a right of way
or easement for the transmission of storm and drainage water. This term does not
include private drain lines.
SYSTEM: All conduits, manholes, poles, antennas, transceivers, amplifiers and all other
electronic devices, equipment, wire and appurtenances owned, leased, or used by a
provider located in the construction, ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a
telecommunications or utility system.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Refers to any person that leases a system or a specific portion of a
system to provide services.
WORK SITE RESTORATION: Means and includes the restoring of the original ground
or paved hard surface area to comply with engineering regulations, and includes, but is
not limited to, repair, cleanup, backfilling, compaction, and stabilization, paving and
other work necessary to place the site in acceptable condition following the conclusion
of the work, or the expiration or revocation of the permit. (Ord. 259, 1-6-1998)
11-6-020: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any person desiring to perform utility or excavation work of any kind in a public way or
city property within the city, shall make application for a permit. The decision by the city
to issue a permit shall include, among other factors determined by the city, the
following:
A. The capacity of the public way to accommodate the facilities or structures proposed
to be installed in the public way;
B. The capacity of the public way to accommodate multiple wire in addition to cables,
conduits, pipes or other facilities or structures of other users of the public way, such as
electrical power, telephone, gas, sewer and water;
C. The damage or disruption, if any of public or private facilities, improvements, or
landscaping previously existing in the public way; and
D. The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of construction from
numerous excavations of the public way; or
E. The city’s interest in encumbering the city property with activities and purposes of
the encroachment. (Ord. 259, 1-6-1998; amd. Ord. 1538, 4-19-2022)
11-6-030: PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
A. Filing: Application for a permit shall be filed with the city engineer on a form or forms
to be furnished by the city. Property owners and/or tenants for whom work is being done
shall be responsible for obtaining the permits, provided, however, contractors may
obtain the permit in the contractor's name with written permission by the owner,
providing the contractor is authorized to complete the work.
B. Eligible Applicants: No person shall be eligible to apply for or receive permits to do
work within the public ways of the city, save and except the following:
1. Contractors licensed by the state as general contractors;
2. Providers;
3. Property owners installing, replacing, or maintaining less than five hundred (500)
square feet or one hundred (100) linear feet of sidewalk, curb, and gutter, or driveway
approach, or other work approved by the city engineer, upon a portion of the public way
adjacent to their residence; or
4. Persons offering a service which requires occupation of the public way, such as
scaffold or staging, staging of a crane, installation or maintenance of electric signs,
glass, awnings, and painting or cleaning of buildings or signboards or other structures.
C. Consideration Of Past Performance: The city engineer may deny the issuance of
permits to contractors, utility companies, or other permit applicants who have shown by
past performance that in the opinion of the city engineer they will not consistently
conform to the engineering regulations, specifications, design standards, or the
requirements of this chapter.
D. Plans, Specifications May Be Required: When necessary, in the judgment of the
city engineer, to fully determine the relationship of the work proposed to existing or
proposed facilities within the public ways, or to determine whether the work proposed
complies with the engineering regulations, construction specifications and design
standards, the city engineer may require the filing of engineering plans, specifications
and sketches showing the proposed work in sufficient detail to permit determination of
such relationship or compliance, or both, and the application shall be deemed
suspended until such plans and sketches are filed and approved.
E. Complete Application Required: Applicant shall provide all documentation listed on
the permit application at the time of submission to the city engineer. Submission shall
be online or via email. Incomplete applications will not be accepted.
F. Expiration of Application: Applications will expire after 30 days without a permit
being issued. Reactivation of an application for up to an additional 30 days will require
an additional application fee payment.
EG. Work Without Permit Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to commence
work upon any public way until the city engineer has approved the application and until
a permit has been issued for such work, except as specifically approved to the contrary
in this chapter.
FH. Appeal: The disapproval or denial of an application by the city engineer may be
appealed by the applicant to the city council by filing of a written notice of appeal within
ten (10) days of the action of the city engineer. The city council shall hear such appeal,
if written request therefor is timely filed as soon as practicable, and render its decision
within two (2) weeks following notice of such appeal.
GI. Authority Limited: In approving or disapproving work within any public way, or
permits therefor, in the inspection of such work, in reviewing plans, sketches or
specifications, and generally in the exercise of the authority conferred upon him/her by
this chapter, the city engineer shall act in such manner as to preserve and protect the
public way and the use thereof, but shall have no authority to govern the actions or
inaction of permittees and applicants or other persons which have no relationship to the
use, preservation or protection of the public way.
HJ. Exceptions: A permit is not required from the city engineer for hand digging
excavations for installation or repair of sprinkler systems and landscaping within the
nonpaved areas of the public way. However, conformance to all city specifications is
required. (Ord. 259, 1-6-1998; amd. Ord. 1538, 4-19-2022)
11-6-040: EMERGENCY WORK:
A. Permitted: Any person maintaining pipes, lines, or facilities in the public way may
proceed with work upon existing facilities without a permit when emergency
circumstances demand the work to be done immediately; provided a permit could not
reasonably and practicably have been obtained beforehand.
B. During Business Hours: In the event that emergency work is commenced on or
within any public way of the city during regular business hours, the city engineer shall
be notified within one- half (1/2) hour from the time the work is commenced. The person
commencing and conducting such work shall take all necessary safety precautions for
the protection of the public and the direction and control of traffic, and shall ensure that
work is accomplished according to city engineering regulations, the "Manual On Uniform
Traffic Control Devices" and other applicable laws, regulations, or generally recognized
practices in the industry.
C. Other Than Business Hours: Any person commencing emergency work in the public
way during other than business hours without a permit shall immediately thereafter
apply for a permit or give notice during the first hour of the first regular business day on
which city offices are open for business after such work is commenced. A permit for
such emergency work may be issued which shall be retroactive to the date when the
work was begun, at the discretion of the city engineer. (Ord. 259, 1-6-1998)
11-6-050: PERMIT FEES:
A. Required: The city shall charge and the permittee shall pay upon issuance of the
permit, fees for costs associated with the work performed under the permit as outlined
in the consolidated fee schedule. Such costs could include costs for reviewing the
project and issuing the permit, inspections of the project, deterioration of the public way
or diminution of the useful life of the public way, and other costs to the city associated
with the work to be done under the permit. All costs shall be assessed in a
nondiscriminatory manner.
B. Waiver: The city engineer may waive permit fees or penalties or portions thereof
provided for in this chapter, when he/she determines that such permit fee or penalty:
1. Pertains to construction or rehabilitation of housing for persons whose income is
below the median income level for the city; or
2. Pertains to an encroachment on the public way involving a beautification project
which furthers specific goals and objectives set forth in the city's strategic plan, master
plans, or other official documents, including decorative street lighting, building facade
lighting, flower and planter boxes, and landscaping.
C. Additional Charges: The city may add additionalAdditional charges to cover the
reasonable cost and expenses of any required engineering review, inspection, after
hours inspections including nights, weekends, and/or on city observed holidays, and
work site restoration associated with each undertaking may be charged by the city to
each permittee, in addition to the permit fee. (Ord. 259, 1-6-1998; amd. Ord. 1538, 4-19-
2022)
11-6-060: PERMIT; CONTENTS, DURATION AND EXTENSIONS:
A. Issued Permit: The city will issue an encroachment permit on approval of an
application.
AB. Content: Each permit application shall state the starting date and estimated
completion date. Work shall be completed within five (5) days from the starting date or
as determined by the city engineer. Such determination shall be based upon factors
reasonably related to the work to be performed under the permit. Such factors may
include, in addition to other factors related to the work to be performed, the following:
1. The scope of work to be performed under the permit;
2. Maintaining the safe and effective flow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic on the
public way affected by the work;
3. Protecting the existing improvements to the public way impacted by the work;
4. The season of the year during which the work is to be performed, as well as the
current weather and its impact on public safety and the use of the public way by the
public; and
5. Use of the public way for extraordinary events anticipated by the city.
BC. Duration: The city engineer shall be notified by the permittee of commencement of
the work within twenty four (24) hours prior to commencing work. The permit shall be
valid for the time period specified in the permit.
D. Special Instructions: The permit may include special instructions that shall become
part of the conditions of the permit.
E. Inspections: Work within the public way or city property is required to be inspected
by the city engineer or his designee, including but not limited to, prior to contractor
beginning work, material placement, completion, final inspection, and any inspection
identified in the special instructions if required by the city engineer.
CF. Extension: If the work is not completed during such period, prior to the expiration
of the permit, the permittee may apply to the city engineer for an additional permit or an
extension, which may be granted by the city engineer for good cause shown.
DG. Length Of Extension: The length of the extension requested by the permittee shall
be subject to the approval of the city engineer. No extension shall be made that allows
work to be completed in the winter period without payment of winter fees. (Ord. 259, 1-
6-1998; amd. Ord. 1538, 4-19-2022)
11-6-070: PERMIT; NO TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT:
Permits shall not be transferable or assignable, and work shall not be performed under
a permit in any place other than that specified in the permit. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent a permittee from subcontracting the work to be performed under a permit;
provided, however, that the holder of the permit shall be and remain responsible for the
performance of the work under the permit, and for all bonding, insurance and other
requirements of this chapter and under said permit. (Ord. 259, 1-6-1998)
11-6-080: COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS, STANDARDS, TRAFFIC
CONTROL REGULATIONS; SITE PERMITTEE IDENTIFICATION:
A. Conformance: Work performed in the public way shall conform to the requirements
of the design standards, construction specifications and traffic control regulations of the
city, a copy of which shall be available from the city engineer, kept on file in the office of
the city recorderengineer, and open to public inspection during office hours. (Ord. 962,
2-1-2011)
B. Signage: Where a job site is left unattended, before completion of the work, signage
with minimum two inch (2") high letters shall be attached to a barricade or otherwise
posted at the site, indicating the permittee's name, or company name, telephone
number, and after hours telephone number.
C. Barricades: All excavations shall be conducted in a manner resulting in a minimum
amount of interference or interruption of street or pedestrian traffic. Inconvenience to
residents and businesses fronting on the public way shall be minimized. Suitable,
adequate and sufficient barricades and/or other structures will be available and used
where necessary to prevent accidents involving property or persons. Barricades must
be in place until all of the permittee's equipment is removed from the site and the
excavation has been backfilled and proper temporary gravel surface is in place, except
where backfilling and resurfacing is to be done by the city; in which case the barricades,
together with any necessary lights, flares or torches, must remain in place until the
backfill work is actually commenced by the city. From sunset to sunrise, all barricades
and excavations must be clearly outlined by adequate signal lights, torches, etc. The
police department and fire department shall be notified at least twenty four (24) hours in
advance of any planned excavation requiring street closure or traffic detour.
D. Traffic: All public ways shall remain open to vehicle and pedestrian traffic during
work unless conditions necessitate closure, as determined by the city engineer.
Closure of the public way requires a written approval of the public works director, in
consultation with the city engineer. Conditions of the public way closure will be special
instructions in the permit, including written approval from the public works director. Any
street closure will require a city approved detour plan and that the applicant provide
written notification to emergency services, the school district, post office, mass transit, and
other agencies, as applicable. Street closure conditions will be listed as special
instructions on the permit.(Ord. 259, 1-6-1998; amd. Ord. 1538, 4-19-2022)
11-6-090: OTHER HIGHWAY PERMITS:
A. Holders of permits for work on highways owned or under the jurisdiction of other
government entities, but located within the city limits, shall not be required to obtain
permits from the city under the provisions of this chapter, unless the work extends
beyond the back side of the curb, or beyond any other designated jurisdictional
boundary. Any city permit shall not be construed to permit or allow work on a county
road or on a state highway within the city without an applicable county or state permit.
B. The city engineer, in his or her discretion, shall have the right and authority to
regulate work under permits issued by other governmental entities with respect to hours
and days of work, and measures required to be taken by the permittee of said
governmental entity for the protection of traffic and safety of persons and property.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impose any
duty, implied or express, on the city or its employees, officers, agents or assigns,
relative to the protection of traffic and safety of persons or property, arising out of the
issuance of any permit issued by government entities other than the city, or arising out
of any work performed on any public way owned or within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 259, 1-6-1998)
11-6-100: RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES IN PUBLIC WAYS:
A. Authority: The city engineer may direct any person owning or maintaining facilities
or structures in the public way to alter, modify or relocate such facilities or structures as
the city engineer may require. Sewers, pipes, drains, tunnels, conduits, pipe driveways,
vaults, trash receptacles and overhead and underground gas, electric, utility, telephone,
utility systems, communication facilities, water and water pipes shall specifically be
subject to such directives. The person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures
shall, at their own cost and expense and upon reasonable written notice by the city,
promptly protect, or promptly alter or relocate such facilities or structures, or part
thereof, as directed by the city. In the event that such person refuses or neglects to
conform to the directive of the city, the city shall have the right to break through,
remove, alter or relocate such part of the facilities or structures without liability to such
person. Such person shall pay to the city all costs incurred by the city in connection with
such work performed by the city, including also design, engineering, construction,
materials, insurance, court costs and attorney fees.
B. Considerations: Any directive by the city engineer shall be based upon one or more
of the following:
1. The facility or structure was installed, erected or is being maintained contrary to law,
or determined by the city engineer to be structurally unsound or defective;
2. The facility or structure constitutes a nuisance, as defined under state statute or city
ordinance. (This section shall not, however, be deemed to diminish the vehicle impound
authority of the police department.);
3. The authority under which the facility or structure was installed has expired or has
been revoked;
4. The facility or structure is not in conformity with public improvements consistent with
the general plan of the city for the area;
5. The public way is about to be repaired or improved and such facilities or structures
may pose a hindrance to construction; or
6. The grades or lines of the public way are to be altered or changed.
C. Police Power: Any directive of the city engineer under this section shall be under
and consistent with the city's police power. Unless an emergency condition exists, the
city engineer shall make a good faith effort to consult with the person regarding any
condition that may result in a removal or relocation of facilities in the public way to
consider possible avoidance or minimization of removal or relocation requirements and
provide the directive as far enough in advance of the required removal or relocation to
allow the person a reasonable opportunity to plan and minimize cost associated with the
required removal or relocation.
D. Prior Private Easement: This obligation does not apply to facilities or structures
originally located on private property pursuant to a private easement, which property
was later incorporated into the public way, if that prior private easement grants a
superior vested right.
E. Failure To Comply: Any person owning or maintaining facilities or structures in the
public way who fails to alter, modify or relocate such facilities or structures upon notice
to do so by the city engineer shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor. All costs of
alteration, modification or relocation shall be borne by the person owning or maintaining
the facilities or structures involved.
F. Emergencies: The city may, at any time, in case of fire, disaster or other
emergency, as determined by the city in its reasonable discretion, cut or move any parts
of the system and appurtenances on, over or under the public way, in which event the
city shall not be liable therefor to a person. The city shall notify a person in writing prior
to, if practicable, but in any event as soon as possible and in no case later than the next
business day following any action taken under this subsection. (Ord. 259, 1-6-1998)
11-6-110: IMPACT OF EXCAVATIONENCROACHMENT ON EXISTING
IMPROVEMENTS:
A. A permit does not authorize, provide permission, or imply authorization to trespass
onto private property or private way outside of the public way.
AB. Temporary Improvements: If any sidewalk or curb ramp is blocked by excavation
work, a temporary sidewalk or curb ramp shall be constructed or provided. Said
temporary improvement shall be safe for travel and convenient for users, and consistent
with city standards for such.
BC. Temporary Gravel Surface: Where excavations are made in paved areas, until the
permanent repairs are complete, the disturbed area shall be restored and maintained
with a temporary surface consisting of compacted road base or temporary asphalt.shall
be replaced with a temporary gravel surface until such time as the permanent repairs
are completed.
CD. Disturbances:
1. At any time a permittee disturbs the yard, residence or the real or personal property
of a private property owner or the city, such permittee shall ensure that such property is
returned, replaced and/or restored to a condition that is comparable to the condition that
existed prior to the commencement of the work.
2. The costs associated with the disturbance and the return, replacement and/or
restoration shall be borne by the permittee. Further, a permittee shall reimburse a
property owner or the city, for any actual damage caused by the permittee, its
subcontractor, or its independent contractor, in connection with the disturbance of such
property. However, nothing in this subsection shall require the permittee to pay a
subscriber or private property owner when that subscriber or private property owner
requests that the permittee remove, replace or relocate improvements associated with
the service provided by the permittee to the property owner and when the permittee
exercises due care in the performance of that service, or when the subscriber or private
property owner provided false information to the permittee on which the permittee relied
to its detriment.
D3. Included Acts: Examples of types of acts specifically included in this section are
the following:
1a. Removal of sod, lawn, shrubbery, flowers, trees, driveways, or fence, to install,
trench, repair, replace, remove or locate, equipment, cable or other appurtenances of
the permittee;
2b. Installation or removal of equipment or other appurtenances of the permittee's
system within a private property owner's property or residence which requires drilling,
excavating, plastering, or the like on the part of the permittee;
3c. Temporarily relocating or moving a piece of personal property or a fixture of a
private property owner (such as a motor vehicle, fence, air conditioning, heating unit, or
the like) in order to perform some sort of construction, maintenance or repair by the
permittee; or
4d. Permanently removing a permittee's equipment or other appurtenances due to the
revocation, termination or nonrenewal of the franchise, if applicable.
EE. Drainage Channels: Existing drainage channels, such as gutters or ditches, shall
be kept free of dirt or other debris so that natural flow will not be interrupted. When it is
necessary to block or otherwise interrupt flow of the drainage channel, a method of
rerouting the flow must be submitted for approval by the city engineer prior to the
blockage of the channel. Approved rerouting method shall be implemented and
maintained during usage to facility unrestricted flow.
FF. Subcontractors Applicable: The requirements imposed upon the permittee extend
to any subcontractor or independent contractor that the permittee might employee to
perform the tasks pursuant to the permit.
GG. Permanent Structure In Public Way: The requirements of this section shall not
apply to the removal by a permittee, of a permanent structure placed by a property
owner in a public way, unless such property owner has received prior written permission
from the city granting the property owner the right to install a permanent structure on a
public way, and such written permission has been recorded in the office of the county
recorder. (Ord. 259, 1-6-1998; amd. Ord. 1538, 4-19-2022)
11-6-120: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
A. Required: The permittee shall, at its own expense, restore the surface of any public
way or city property to its original condition and replace any removed or damaged
pavement with the same type and depth of pavement as that which is adjoining,
including the gravel base materialaccording to the standards outlined on the permit. All
restoration shall conform to the engineering regulations, design standards and
specifications promulgated by the city and shall be accomplished within the time limits
set forth in the permit, unless additional time is granted in writing by the city engineer.
B. Restoration By City: At its option, the permittee doing the actual excavation work
may request that the city restore the surface to its original condition. The fee for such
resurfacing shall be determined by the city engineer in accordance with its reasonable
costs for such work and shall be charged to the person, firm, or corporation making the
excavation. Payment for said work shall be received by the city prior to the issuance of
the encroachment permit in order to accommodate the scheduling by the city of the
restoration and shall be sufficient to cover all associated costs incurred by the
city.release of the bond. (Ord. 259, 1-6-1998; amd. Ord. 1538, 4-19-2022)
11-6-130: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
A. Specified: Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall furnish to the city evidence
that such applicant has a comprehensive general liability (CDL) and property damage
policy that includes contractual liability coverage endorsed with the following limits and
provisions or with such alternative limits and provisions as may be approved by the city:
1. Commercial General Liability Insurance on an “occurance” basis, including products
and completed operations, property damage, bodily injury and personal & advertising
injury with limits no less than two million ($2,000,000) per occurrence. A minimum of
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) combined single limit per occurrence for bodily
injury, personal injury, and property damage and not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) in the aggregate. The general aggregate limit shall apply separately to
the permit, or the general aggregate limit shall be two (2) times the required occurrence
limit. The coverage shall be in the nature of broad from commercial general liability
coverage. The city attorney may increase or decrease minimum insurance limits,
depending on the potential liability of any project.
2. Draper City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as
additional insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or
operations performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or
equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. General liability
coverage shall be provided in the form of an endorsement.All policies shall include the
city, its employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers and assigns, as insureds. Any
reference to the "city" shall include the city, its employees, officers, officials, agents,
volunteers and assigns.
3. The coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the city, its employees,
officers, officials, agents, volunteers, and assigns. Any insurance or self-insurance
maintained by the city, its employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers, and assigns
shall be in excess of the permittee's insurance and shall not contribute to or with it.
4. Any failure to comply with reporting provisions of the policy shall not effect coverage
provided to the city, its employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers, and assigns.
5. Coverage shall state that the permittee's insurance shall apply separately to each
insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought, except with respect to the limits
of the insurer's liability.
6. The permittee grants to the city a waiver of any right to subrogation, which any
insurer of said permittee may acquire against the city by virtue of the payment of any
loss under such insurance. Permittee agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be
necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of
whether or not the city has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the
insurer.Underwriters shall have no right of recovery or subrogation against the city, it
being the intent of the parties that the insurance policy so affected shall protect both
parties and be primary coverage for any and all losses covered by the described
insurance.
7. The insurance companies issuing the policy or policies shall have no recourse
against the city for payment of any premiums due or for any assessments under any
form of any policy.
8. Each insurance policy shall be endorsed to state that the coverage shall not be
suspended, voided, canceled, or reduced in coverage or in limits, except after thirty (30)
days' prior written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested sent to the city.
9. Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, save harmless and defend the city and
its officers and employees against any claim or loss, damage or expense sustained on
account of damages to persons or property occurring by reason of permit work done by
the permittee, or his/her subcontractor or agent, whether or not the work has been
completed and whether or not the right of way has been opened to public travel.
10. Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the city, and
its officers and employees against any claim or loss, damage or expense sustained by
any person occurring by reason of doing any work pursuant to the permit including, but
not limited to, falling objects or failure to maintain proper barricades and/or lights as
required from the time work begins until the work is completed and right of way is
opened for public use.
11. Each required insurance policy shall provide that coverage shall not be cancelled,
except with prior written notice given to the city.
B. Carrier Requirements: Insurance is to be placed with insurers with an A.M. Best
rating of no less than an A carrier, with a rating of "A7" or higher A:VII, unless otherwise
acceptable to the city.
C. Certificates: Permittee shall furnish the city with original certificates of insurance including
all required amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting
coverage required by this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement page of the
CGL policy listing all policy endorsements to the city before work begins. However, failure to
obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Permittee’s
obligation to provide them. The city reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any
time.The permittee shall furnish the city with certificates of insurance and original
endorsements affecting coverage required by the permit. The certificates and
endorsements for each insurance policy are to be signed by a person authorized by that
insurer to bind coverage on its behalf. The city expressly reserves the right to require
complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies at any time. Consequently,
the permittee shall be prepared to provide such copies prior to the issuance of the
permit.
D. Unsatisfactory Policies: If any of the required policies are, or at any time become,
unsatisfactory to the city as to form or substance, or if a company issuing any such
policy is, or at any time becomes, unsatisfactory to the city, the permittee shall promptly
obtain a new policy, submit the same to the city for approval, and thereafter submit
verification of coverage as required by the city. Upon failure to furnish, deliver and
maintain such insurance as provided herein, the city may declare the permit to be in
default and pursue any and all remedies the city may have at law or in equity, including
those actions outlined in this chapter.
E. Subcontractors Included: The permittee shall include all subcontractors as insured
under its policies or shall furnish separate certificates and endorsements for each
subcontractor. All coverages for subcontractors shall be subject to all of the
requirements stated herein.
F. Deductibles, Retentions: Any deductibles or self-insured retentions shall be
declared to and approved by the city. At the option of the city, either the insurer shall
reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured retentions as respects the city, its
employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers or assigns, or the permittee shall
procure a bond, in a form acceptable to the city, guaranteeing payment of losses and
related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses.
G. Homeowner Policies: A property owner performing work adjacent to his or her
residence may submit proof of a homeowner's insurance policy in lieu of the insurance
requirements of this section.
H. Exceptions: A provider may be relieved of the obligation of submitting certificates of
insurance under the following circumstances:
1. If such company shall submit satisfactory evidence in advance that:
a. It is insured in the amounts set forth in this chapter, or has complied with state
requirements to become self-insured. Public utilities may submit annually evidence of
insurance coverage in lieu of individual submissions for each permit; and
b. Said coverage provides to the city the same scope of coverage that would otherwise
be provided by a separate policy as required by this chapter; or
c. The work to be performed under the permit issued to the applicant is to be
performed by the city, in which case insurance requirement or other risk transfer issues
shall be negotiated between the city and the applicant by separate agreement. (Ord.
259, 1-6-1998)
11-6-140: BOND; WHEN REQUIRED, CONDITIONS, WARRANTY:
A. Improvement Completion Assurance Required: Except as noted in this chapter,
before being issued a permit, each applicant shall provide the city with an improvement
completion assurance as defined by section 17-4-075 in an amount determined by the
city engineer to guarantee faithful performance of the work authorized by a permit
granted pursuant to this chapter.
B. Exception For Franchise: Public utilities franchised by the city shall not be required
to provide an improvement completion assurance if such requirement is expressly
waived in the franchise documents. (Ord. 259, 1-6-1998; amd. Ord. 1501, 10-5-2021)
11-6-150: HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT; LIMITATIONS ON CITY LIABILITY:
A. The permittee agrees to save the city, its officers, employees and agents harmless
from any and all costs, damages and liabilities which may accrue or be claimed to
accrue by reason of any work performed under the permit. The issuance and
acceptance of any permit under this chapter shall constitute such an agreement by the
permittee to this section.
B. This chapter shall neither be construed as imposing upon the city, its officers,
employees and agents, any liability or responsibility for damages to any person injured
by or by reason of the performance of any work within the public way, or under a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter; nor shall the city, its officers, officials, employees,
agents, volunteers or assigns thereof be deemed to have assumed any such liability or
responsibility by reason of inspection authorized hereunder, the issuance of any permit,
or the approval of any work. (Ord. 259, 1-6-1998)
11-6-160: WORK WITHOUT PERMIT; PENALTY:
A. Stop Order: A stop order may be issued by the city engineer directed to any person
or persons doing or causing any work to be done in the public way without a permit. The
abutting property owner shall be responsible for causing work to be done.
B. Additional Fee: Any person found to be doing work in the public way without having
obtained a permit, as provided in this chapter, shall be required to pay a permit fee
equal to two (2) times the normal permit fee. For replacement work, where a fee is not
normally charged, the normal permit fee for new construction shall apply. (Ord. 259, 1-
6-1998)
11-6-170: FAILURE TO COMPLY; DEFAULT IN PERFORMANCE:
A. Conditions: Any permit may be revoked or suspended and a stop order issued by
the city engineer, after notice to the permittee for any of the following reasons:
1. Violation of any condition of the permit, the bond, or of any provision of this chapter;
2. Violation of any provision of any other ordinance of the city or law relating to the
work; or
3. Existence of any condition or the doing of any act which does constitute, may
constitute or cause a condition endangering life or property.
B. Immediate Effect: A suspension or revocation by the city engineer, and a stop order,
shall take effect immediately upon entry thereof by the city engineer and notice to the
person performing the work in the public way. Notice to the person performing the work
shall be accomplished when the city engineer has posted a stop work order at the
location of the work and written notice has been mailed, return receipt requested, to the
address indicated by the permittee on the permit.
C. Notice: Whenever the city engineer finds that a default has occurred in the
performance of any term or condition of the permit, written notice thereof may be given
to the principal and to the surety on the bond, if there is a surety bond. Such notice shall
state the work to be done, the estimated cost thereof, and the period of time deemed by
the city engineer to be reasonably necessary for the completion of the work.
D. Failure To Comply; Work By City: In the event that the surety or principal, within a
reasonable time following the giving of such notice (taking into consideration the
exigencies of the situation, the nature of the work, the requirements of public safety and
for the protection of persons and property), fails either to commence and cause the
required work to be performed with due diligence, or to indemnify the city for the cost of
doing the work, as set forth in the notice, the city may perform the work, at the discretion
of the city engineer, with city forces or contract forces or both, and suit may be
commenced by the city attorney against the contractor and bonding company and such
other persons as may be liable, to recover the entire amount due to the city, including
attorney fees, on account thereof. In the event that cash has been deposited, the cost of
performing the work may be charged against the amount deposited, and suit brought for
the balance due, if any. (Ord. 259, 1-6-1998; amd. Ord. 1538, 4-19-2022)
11-6-180: FAILURE TO CONFORM TO DESIGN STANDARDS; PENALTY:
For failure to conform to the design standards and regulations, the city engineer may:
A. Suspend or revoke the permit;
B. Issue a stop order;
C. Order removal and replacement of faulty work;
D. Require an extended warranty period; and/or
E. Negotiate a cash settlement to be applied toward future maintenance costs. (Ord.
259, 1-6-1998)
11-6-190: APPEAL OF SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, OR STOP ORDER:
Any suspension, revocation or stop order by the city engineer may be appealed by the
permittee by filing a written notice of appeal with the city council within ten (10) days of
the action of the city engineer. The city council shall hear such appeal, if written request
therefor is timely filed, as soon as practicable, and render its decision within a
reasonable time following filing of notice of appeal. (Ord. 259, 1-6-1998)
11-6-200: TAMPERING WITH TRAFFIC BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or wantonly or without authorization
and legal cause, extinguish, remove or diminish any light illuminating any barricade or
excavation, or to tear down, remove or in any manner alter any rail, fence or barricade
protecting any excavation or other construction site. (Ord. 259, 1-6-1998)
11-6-210: CONFLICT WITH GOVERNING PROVISIONS:
Should there be a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of
any other ordinance, agreement, franchise, or other document governing the excavation
of a public way, the more restrictive provisions of the aforesaid documents shall apply.
(Ord. 259, 1-6-1998)
11-6-220: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a violation of any provision of this chapter, or
failure to comply with an order of suspension, revocation or stop work, shall be a class
B misdemeanor. Each day the violation exists shall be a separate offense. No criminal
conviction shall excuse the person from otherwise complying with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 259, 1-6-1998)
5-5-100: ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT FEES:
A. In addition to construction and dedication of any required public improvements and
the payment of impact fees, fees may also be established by the city for building
permits, excavationencroachment permits, filing of various applications, inspection of
improvements, site plan reviews, connection to water facilities and other similar
purposes. The amounts of these fees shall be listed in the consolidated fee schedule
and may hereafter be set or amended by resolution of the city council.
8-1-120: COMPENSATION:
C. ExcavationEncroachment Permits: The provider shall also pay fees required for an
excavationencroachment permit as provided in the city's excavationencroachment
permit ordinance. (Ord. 247, 9-2-1997)
8-1-190: NOT IN LIEU OF OTHER TAXES OR FEES:
The fee payment is not a payment in lieu of any tax, fee or other assessment except as
specifically provided in this chapter, or as required by applicable law. By way of
example, and not limitation, excavationencroachment permit fees are not waived and
remain applicable. (Ord. 247, 9-2-1997)
8-1-250: GENERAL REQUIREMENT:
No provider shall receive a franchise unless it agrees to comply with each of the terms
set forth in this chapter governing construction and technical requirements for its
system, in addition to any other requirements or procedures specified by the city or the
franchise, including requirements regarding collocation and cost sharing. A provider
shall obtain a city excavationencroachment permit, pursuant to the
excavationencroachment permit ordinance, before commencing any work in the rights
of way. (Ord. 247, 9-2-1997)
8-1-270: LICENSES AND PERMITS:
A provider shall have the sole responsibility for diligently obtaining, at its own cost and
expense, all permits, licenses or other forms of approval or authorization necessary to
construct, operate, maintain, upgrade or repair the system, including, but not limited to,
any necessary approvals from persons and/or the city to use private property,
easements, poles and conduits. A provider shall obtain any required permit, license,
approval or authorization, including, but not limited to, excavationencroachment permits,
pole attachment agreements, etc., prior to the commencement of the activity for which
the permit, license, approval or authorization is required. (Ord. 247, 9-2-1997)
8-1-280: RELOCATION OF THE SYSTEM:
A. New Grades Or Lines: If the grades or lines of any rights of way are changed at any
time in a manner affecting the system, then a provider shall comply with the
requirements of the excavationencroachment permit ordinance.
D. Rights Of Way Change; Obligation To Move System: When the city is changing any
rights of way and makes a written request, a provider is required to move or remove its
system from the rights of way, without cost to the city, to the extent provided in the
excavationencroachment permit ordinance. This obligation exists whether or not the
provider has obtained an excavationencroachment permit. (Ord. 247, 9-2-1997)
8-5-070: MASTER LICENSE AGREEMENTS:
D. Compensation: The Master License Agreement will require the provider to pay fair
and reasonable compensation to the City, as determined by the City Council, for: 1) the
administrative expenses associated with entry into the Master License Agreement and
individual site licenses, 2) the provider's use of ROW, including the City's expenses
associated with maintenance and management of the provider's use of ROW, and 3)
other applicable fees. Specifically, providers must pay the following fees:
3. Other Fees: Providers must also pay all other applicable fees established in this
Code, specifically including but not limited to fees for excavationencroachment permits
and business licensing.
8-5-120: MODIFICATIONS OF WIRELESS FACILITIES:
D. A provider must apply for an excavationencroachment permit in accordance with
title 11, chapter 6 of this Code for any work that requires excavation or the closure of
sidewalks or vehicular lanes. The requirement to obtain an excavationencroachment
permit applies even for work that is exempted from the application process pursuant to
subsection C of this section.
10-3-020: APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT:
C. Construction On Existing Parcels: Building permit applications for residential and
non-residential construction on existing parcels not within a subdivision shall be
submitted and reviewed by the Community Development Department to determine the
requirements for building permit issuance. The Community Development Department
shall route applicable plans to the Engineering Division to determine frontage
improvement and right- of-way dedication provisions. The Engineering Division shall
determine the presence of adequate frontage improvements and right-of-way dedication
in accordance with sections 9-27-100 and 9-27-110 of this Code. The Engineering
Division shall inform the Community Development Department of the requirement and
method by which frontage improvements shall be provided by the applicant. The
Community Development Department shall inform the applicant of the Engineering
Division's determination.
3. Upon finding that the improvement plan documents for frontage improvement
installation are complete, the building permit applicant shall post a form of security and
enter into an improvement agreement in accordance with the provisions of section 17-4-
070 of this Code. Upon completion of the improvement agreement, the City Engineer
shall issue an excavationencroachment permit in accordance with title 11, chapter 6 of
this Code.
4. Upon issuance of the excavationencroachment permit, the Engineering Division
shall notify the Community Development Department that the required documentation
for the establishment of frontage improvements has been completed and the building
permit may be issued provided all other conditions have been satisfied.
