                              Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, Utah 84020



                                        STAFF REPORT
                                        February 1, 2022

To:                   Draper City Planning Commission
                      Business Date: February 10, 2022

From:                 Development Review Committee

Prepared By:          Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                      Planning Division
                      Community Development Department
                      (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov

Re:      Airborne-Alcatraz Rezone — Zoning Map Amendment Request
         Application No.:   TEXTMAP-200-2021
         Applicant:         Stew Knight of KREA
         Project Location: Approximately 12674 S. Pony Express Road
         Current Zoning:    CR (Regional Commercial) Zone
         Acreage:           Approximately 2.85 acres (approximately 124,146 square feet)
         Request:           A request to rezone the property from CR to CG (General
                            Commercial). No new development or change of users is
                            proposed at this time.

BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a zoning map amendment for approximately
2.85 acres located at approximately 12674 S. Pony Express Drive (see Exhibit B). The
property is currently zoned CR. The applicant is requesting to rezone the property to CG.
There is no development and no proposed changes of users at this time.

An application for a site plan and conditional use permit for the building on the subject
property was approved by the Planning Commission in 1999 for a business called Tropical
Snow. In 1999, the property was zoned C-3 and buildings with both office and warehouse


Airborne-Alcatraz Rezone                                         App. # TEXTMAP-200-2021
Zoning Map Amendment                            1
space required a conditional use permit at that time. That conditional use permit was
approved with a condition that no more than 10% of the buildings are utilized for office
space. In January of 2000, the Planning Commission modified the percentage that could be
utilized for office up to 18%. In mid-2010, the conditional use permit was modified to allow
for the current use of ‘recreation and entertainment, indoor’ for the subject property. That
approval allowed up to 130 patrons at any one time to address a potential parking issue.
Finally, in late 2016, a minor site plan was approved to develop an additional parking lot for
the business to the west (across the canal) within the Rocky Mountain power corridor. With
the addition of this parking area, the site currently complies with parking.

ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan identifies the site as the
Community Commercial land use designation (see Exhibit C). This categories are
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the CR zoning classification (see Exhibit D). DCMC Section
9-8-020(C)(3) states: “The purpose of the CR zone is to provide areas where a combination

Airborne-Alcatraz Rezone                                          App. # TEXTMAP-200-2021
Zoning Map Amendment                          2
of destination oriented business, retail commercial, entertainment, and related uses may
be established, maintained and protected to serve both residents and nonresidents of the
city. Typical uses in this zone include large scale, master planned commercial centers with
outlying commercial pads, big box stores, offices, and various types of high density
residential uses.”

The property is surrounded by CR zoning on both the north and south. Interstate 15 abuts
the site to the east. To the west is the Rocky Mountain power corridor which is zoned A5
(Agricultural, 5 acre minimum).

Zoning Map Amendment. The zoning map amendment request will change the property
from the CR zone to CG. The applicant has requested this change as the building was
constructed as office warehouse and that use is no longer allowed in the CR zone. The CG
zone would allow for office warehouse uses and in the event the current tenants leave the
site, the building would be more marketable to a potential user. The applicant’s specific
request can be found in Exhibit E.

Criteria for Approval. A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative
discretion of the City Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in
making a recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider
the following factors in Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

1.       Map Amendments:
         a.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
              policies of the city's general plan;
         b.   Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character
              of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
         c.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
              applicable overlay zone;
         d.   The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
              property; and
         e.   The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
              property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
              facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
              water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the proposed zoning map amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.




Airborne-Alcatraz Rezone                                        App. # TEXTMAP-200-2021
Zoning Map Amendment                          3
Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
The Engineering and Public Works Divisions have completed their review of the proposed
zoning map amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Draper City Fire Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed their review of the
proposed zoning map amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Review. The Draper City Legal has completed their review of the proposed zoning
map amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation based on the findings listed below and the criteria
for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

1.       Map Amendments:
         a.   The amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
              general plan;
         b.   The amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
              development in the vicinity of the subject property;
         c.   The amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay
              zone;
         d.   The proposed amendment may not adversely affect adjacent property; and
         e.   Adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
              including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police
              and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
              and wastewater and refuse collection are in place.

The findings for denial as are follows:

1.       Map Amendments:
         a.   The amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
              city's general plan;
         b.   The amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
              development in the vicinity of the subject property;
         c.   The amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable
              overlay zone;

Airborne-Alcatraz Rezone                                           App. # TEXTMAP-200-2021
Zoning Map Amendment                            4
         d.       The proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent property; and
         e.       Adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
                  including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police
                  and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
                  and wastewater and refuse collection may not be in place.



MODEL MOTION
Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation – “I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Airborne-Alcatraz zoning map amendment
request, as requested by Stew Knight of KREA, application TEXTMAP-200-2021, based on
the findings listed in the staff report dated February 1, 2022.”

Sample Motion for a Negative Recommendation. “I move that we forward a negative
recommendation to the City Council for the Airborne-Alcatraz zoning map amendment
request, as requested by Stew Knight of KREA, application TEXTMAP-200-2021, based on
the findings listed in the staff report dated February 1, 2022.”




Airborne-Alcatraz Rezone                                              App. # TEXTMAP-200-2021
Zoning Map Amendment                              5
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments.

Building Division Review.
No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
1.     The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water
       and refuse collection. Other than noted below, we are not aware of any
       inadequacies of the facilities intended to serve this property.
       a.     The change of commercial zoning is dependent on the intended use to
              determine if there would be an increase in density from the regional
              commercial zone to the general commercial zoning. It is the change in
              intensity that would affect the traffic volume to and from the subject area.
              Based on use tables, there are high traffic uses permitted in both the existing
              zone and the proposed zone. Where the site has an existing building and
              completed facilities, a change in zoning would not materially impact the
              traffic volume with the zone change request. Access to the site is from 12650
              South and Pony Express. Each of these streets are part of the city’s classified
              streets which accommodate the greatest volume of traffic in the city. Traffic
              issues in the area are at peak travel times, especially at the intersection of
              12300 South and Lone Peak Parkway. A Traffic Impact Study may be
              required with a site plan or subdivision application based on the proposed
              use and projected traffic volume.
       b.     Connectivity with the subject parcel to a public right-of-way is on 12650
              South and Pony Express Road, both are classified collector streets. Any
              future changes to access locations will be required to meet Draper City
              Standards as outlined in our Master Transportation Plan. Future access will
              be determined based on the city’s access management plan.
       c.     There are existing storm drain facilities available to the subject area.
              Provisions for onsite storm drainage will need to be addressed with any
              subdivision or site plan application, and shall comply with the provisions of
              the development requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.
       d.     Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any
              subdivision application will require a commitment to serve from the Sewer
              District that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.
       e.     Drinking water facilities will be provided by the city. The city distribution
              system is designed to accommodate the proposed increase in the permitted
              uses in the proposed zone on the site. Any future subdivision or site plan
              application will require a commitment to serve from the city that will address
              whether the city’s facilities are adequate to provide service for the any
              change of uses.

Fire Division Review.
1.     The Draper City Fire Department has concerns on the request for the Zoning Map
       Amendment. The concerns are this currently the entire building is being used by
       Airborne and Alcatraz so we need clarification as to where they want to do office
       warehouse. In addition, they need to maintain the Utah State Fire Code
       requirements of having an annual inspection of their fire protection systems. There
       is no separation in Airborne for them to have an office warehouse next to a special
       amusement occupancy but we would have to do some research in the code to see if
       it is, allowed. Also if they do go to office warehouse they fire sprinkler would need
       to have an evaluation by a fire protection engineer to see if the fire sprinkler system
       is capable of handling the commodity classification of what is being stored.

Legal Division Review.
No additional comments provided.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
      EXHIBIT E
APPLICANT’S REQUEST
                                   Property Map
             Subject Property: 12674 South Pony Express Road




                         CBP


                                                  CR

                                             SUBJECT
       Propose rezone of subject
                                                               CG
       property to CG




CSD—White Mountain
Business District
                                             CBP




                                       M-1
Zoning Map Amendment Questions Attachment

1.      What is the requested zoning designation? Response: CG

2.      Please explain the reason for the request and the justification for approval. Response: The
building was constructed as an office warehouse building in 2000. The current CR zone does not allow
office warehouse uses.

3.     How is the requested zoning designation harmonious with the overall character of existing
development in the vicinity of the subject property? Response: See Property Map

All buildings to the West in the CBP Zone are office warehouse buildings

All buildings to the East (across the freeway) in the CG Zone are office warehouse buildings.

The White Mountain Business Park is located to the southwest and consists of 6 industrial office
warehouse buildings on 40 acres totaling nearly 600,000 sq. ft.

A new industrial park to the south zoned M-1 is under construction. It is just over .3 miles away.



4.      Are facilities and services, such as roadways and utilities, sufficient to serve the property under
the proposed zoning? Response: Yes. This is an existing building on the corner of Pony Express Road
and 12674 South with all utilities in place sufficient for a CG zone designation. This building is similar
to the existing buildings in the CG zone across the freeway to the east.



5.      Is the proposed zoning designation consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the
City’s General Plan? Response. Yes. The rezone will support Draper’s Economic Vitality and Diversity
Goals. The general plan land use map shows Community Commercial for the subject property with
industrial/manufacturing to the west. There is also business/light manufacturing along Lone Peak
Parkway to the north of 12300 South. Community Commercial is also the land use for the areas
designated CG to the east and along the Pony Express Road to the south and stops at the new
_____________ industrial development which has M-1 zoning.

The CG Zone for the subject property will encourage office warehouse uses in additional to the
current indoor recreation and entertainment uses. The building was originally designed for office
warehouse uses. The rezone will allow for office warehouse businesses seeking to relocate or remain
in Draper to find a suitable location to grow. These uses will encourage additional economic and
employment opportunities and support business growth within the city.
