                                   ORDINANCE NO. 1522

        AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING A MASTER AREA PLAN PER THE
        LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE
        RELATING TO VISTA 600 WEST MASTER AREA PLAN.

      WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of
property by zoning districts; and

        WHEREAS, the terms and provisions of the TSD (Transit Station District) zoning
classification were originally adopted and established in the Draper City Municipal Code
through the adoption of Ordinance 859, adopted on November 3, 2008 and were
subsequently revised through the adoption of Ordinances 985, 1024, 1085, 1132, 1313, 1328,
1380, 1394, 1418, and 1438 between October 13, 2011 and May 19, 2020; and

        WHEREAS, the terms and provisions of the TSD (Transit Station District) zoning
classification require a Master Area Plan be applied for, reviewed, and approved prior to
application for development of any property within the TSD zoning classification; and

       WHEREAS, the Vista 600 West Master Area Plan was adopted on March 6, 2018 and
the applicant is now proposing changes to the adopted Vista 600 West Master Area Plan; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City has determined that the amended Vista 600
West Master Area Plan has provided for and addressed all the narrative and graphic
submittal requirements of Sections 9-14-060(C)(1) and (2); and

       WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code
Annotated and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning
Commission and City Council to receive public input regarding the revision of the Master
Area Plan; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing
to receive public input regarding the revision of the Master Area Plan.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.     Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following
findings that the proposed amendment to the Vista 600 West Master Area Plan: 1. The
proposal complies with all of the required elements under DCMC Section 9-14-060. 2. The
master circulation plan adequately serves the MAP area and areas surrounding the project.
3. The MAP provides for a community character substantially consistent with the purposes
of the TSD, including the provision for at least twenty five percent (25%) commercial, retail,

Ordinance No. 1522                            1                                       Vista 600 West
                                                                       Master Area Plan Amendment
or office uses. 4. The development standards and design guidelines are high quality transit
oriented design standards, including the use of high quality building materials.

       Section 2.     Revision. The Master Area Plan for Vista 600 West is hereby revised to
read as set forth in Exhibit A.

        Section 3.   Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 4.   Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of
final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON THE
___________DAY OF___________, 2022.

                                                   DRAPER CITY



                                                   _____________________________
                                                   Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:



_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder



 VOTE TAKEN:                                         YES                     NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Mayor Walker

Ordinance No. 1522                             2                                        Vista 600 West
                                                                         Master Area Plan Amendment
               EXHIBIT A
Amended Vista 600 West Master Area Plan
                                                             GARDNER COMPANY

                                             VISTA 600 WEST
The Vista 600 West project is located on the North East corner of the newly constructed intersection of Bangerter
Highway and 600 West. The parcel consists of approximately 15 acres of land (see Exhibit A) to be developed into
various uses such as office including, multi-family residential, and retail or a hotel.

The southern 7-10 acres may be used for one to two office buildings totaling approximately 250,000 square feet, a
potential parking garage, and between 7,500 and 15,000 square feet of retail. There are two phases to the office
building portion, Phase 1 is a single office building, and Phase 2 includes adding a second office building and a
parking structure. The construction of Phase 2 will only happen if there is a market demand. The remaining
northern 7-8 acres shall be used for apartment units (multiple buildings or one building, totaling approximately 250
units. Four to five acres of the development’s south western portion will be used for four retail pads, all of which
will have drive through capabilities. Altogether this will total close to 20,000 ft of retail. The south eastern portion
of the development will be used for two apartment buildings that cover 4-5 acres. The development’s remaining
northern 6-7 acres will also be used for multiple apartment buildings. Altogether the development will have 4-5
apartment buildings with a total unit count of approximately 305.

The proposed project fit within the area plan specifications for commercial office, multi-family and retail.

The entrance to the proposed development will be on the west side of the parcel on 600 West. The buildings will
be oriented to the west towards 600 West, South towards Bangerter Highway, and North to the curve of 600 west

The transportation systems within the MAP area are mostly in existence including collector and arterial streets
(Bangerter Highway, 600 West Street, Vista Station Blvd, Frontrunner Blvd, 200 West), and Frontrunner. The
development plan intends to connect the adjacent developments to the east with a private drive and pedestrian
connectivity.

Storm drainage and other utilities have been reviewed for capacity and are available for the site development.

Architectural and site design standards for the MAP are outlined in the Development Guidelines, including setback
and parking standards. The project will be designed in such a way as to promote compatibility between the MAP
area and adjoining properties. If applicable (based on market conditions), structured parking shall be designed to
be compatible with the aesthetic of the other (UTA) parking garage located within the TSD zone.

The estimated sequence and timing of development of the subject parcel will be in an estimated 3 phases (Office,
Retail and then Residential) with phase 1 starting in 2-5 years. Construction will commence when market
conditions permit. There are no major public improvements or off site infrastructure improvements or facilities
required or anticipated to be required in connection with the development of the MAP other than the standard
wet and dry utilities. Marketing will commence immediately on the retail portion of the development, with
construction beginning as soon as users are procured. The housing element will follow shortly after and follow a
phased approach with design for phase one beginning immediately upon MAP approval. There are no major public
improvements or off-site infrastructure improvements, or facilities required or anticipated to be required in
connection with the development of the MAP other than the standard wet and dry utilities.

The site plan and the proposed design guidelines have been reviewed and approved by the Architectural Control
Committee. See Exhibit B.

    VISTA 600 WEST                                                                                          Page 1
                                                       GARDNER COMPANY
A comprehensive sign program has included in the Development Guidelines.



Vista 600 West Architectural and Site Development Guidelines



Development Standards: Site development will occur in accordance with Chapter 9-14 Transit Station District
(TSD) of the Draper City Municipal Code and the following development standards.

Development A r e a s : Based on land use, each building shall comply with the following
development standards:

Office

   1. The architecture shall be the primary tool to create a strong sense of identity and place
      throughout the office district. All buildings will be articulated with use-appropriate scale,
      form, materials, and colors carefully considered and incorporated throughout the
      development phases.

   2. All building facades shall have the same character each utilizing the same materials, colors,
      features, forms, and design elements appropriate to the scale of the various building sizes.

   3. Building primary materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite metal panel, stone, EFIS,
      concrete, GFRC or tile.

   4.    More than one material shall be required on all building facades.

   5.    Buildings shall have a minimum of 40% high efficiency glazing.

   6.    Buildings shall use 50% of a primary material.

   7. Buildings shall have notable entry features which could include: An arch or canopy over entry
      doors, Colors or materials that highlight the entry, Entry doors and lobby that extend beyond
      or are recessed behind the main footprint of the building.

   8. All mechanical equipment shall be screened from view, either by enclosure, parapet wall, or
      line of sight.

   9.     Dumpsters shall be enclosed within a decorative masonry, split face CMU or honed CMU
         enclosure.

   10. The minimum front setback from right-of-way or exterior property lines shall be 10-feet.


   11. Building material placement and material colors shall be used to distinguish office building
      elevations from other office buildings in the immediate area, as approved by the ACC.


    VISTA 600 WEST                                                                               Page 2
                                                         GARDNER COMPANY
Retail

   1.    The minimum setback from right-of-way or exterior property lines shall be 5-feet.

   2.    Minimum building height shall be one-story.

   3.    More than one material shall be required on all building facades.

   4. Building primary materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite metal panel, stone, EFIS,
      concrete, GFRC, tile or other similar material as approved by the ACC.

   5. Dumpsters shall be enclosed within a decorative masonry, split face CMU or honed CMU
      enclosure.

Hotels

   1.    Minimum building height shall be three -stories.

   2.    More than one material shall be required on all building facades.

   3.    The minimum setback from right-of-way or exterior property line shall be 10-feet.

   4. Building primary materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite metal panel, stone, EFIS,
      concrete, GFRC or tile.

   5.    Buildings shall use 50% of a primary material.

   6. Buildings shall have notable entry features which could include: Arch or canopy, colors or
      materials, entry doors that extend beyond or are recessed beyond main footprint of the
      building.

   7. All mechanical equipment shall be screened from view, either by enclosure, parapet wall, or
      line of sight.

   8. Dumpsters shall be enclosed within a decorative masonry, split face CMU or honed CMU
      enclosure.

   9. Every hotel building elevation that faces a public street or internal main private street or
      public open space shall have either a porch, balcony, private patio or window.

Residential

   1. All Residential buildings (within a sub-phase) shall share the same unique architectural theme
      including, but not limited to, colors, materials, rooflines and entries. In addition, Livable
      Residential shall also share the same unique architectural theme in regard to rooflines and
      entries.

   2.    Building materials shall consist of at least three material types.

   3.    All Livable Residential will include There shall be a variety of floor plans/unit sizes within
    VISTA 600 WEST                                                                               Page 3
                                                           GARDNER COMPANY
       each project s u b - p h a s e area.

   4. Livable Residential Outdoor amenity space with seating and either a fire pit or a BBQ area,
      a tot lot, grass play area and an indoor exercise facility. A community clubhouse with an
      indoor and an outdoor amenity shall be provided for the entire residential project, other
      amenities to be determined by developer based on product type. Livable Residential-
      Stacked Flat amenities- A Clubhouse with a club room, exercise facility and pool with spa
      and one outdoor amenity space with a fire pit. Other amenities to be determined by
      developer based on product type.

   5. Each separate All Residential Bbuildings will be connected by internal walkways with shared use
      of outdoor common areas.

   6. Multi-family buildings shall have roofs clad in asphalt shingles, wood shingles, standing
      seam metal, a similar, or a combination of similar materials or shall have flat roofs.

   7. Every multi-family building Livable Residential building elevation that faces a public street or
      internal main private street or public open space, shall have either a porch, balcony, private
      patio or windows.

   8. Residential Building with aAny pitched roof covering the main body of the structure shall be
      hip style, monopitch or shed style, flat roofs or shall have symmetrical gables.

   9. Livable Residential rRoof forms shall be designed to emphasize the residential units when
      possible and shall denote building elements and functions, including primary pedestrian
      entrances.

   10. Residential Building setbacks are as follows: 20-feet from right-of-way or exterior property
       lines. Parking shall be allowed in setback areas along with garbage dumpsters.

   11. Livable Residential building design and orientation should consider exposure to sunlight to
       avoid energy inefficiencies.
   12. Prohibited materials: Vinyl and aluminum siding products are prohibited as wall materials.

   13. Livable Residential color scheme. The use of a single-color scheme, minimal detailing, or blank (or largely
       blank) walls is not permitted. The use of exterior stairs is discouraged.

   14. Livable Residential openings. Not less than twenty -five (25) percent of any front or rear
       building face shall be made up of window, opening (breezeways), garage door areas or man
       door areas. Not less than fifteen (15) percent of any side building face shal l be made up of
       windows or door areas unless an adjacent building within twenty (20) feet of that side face
       obscures the majority of that side face from public view. The front of the building is defined
       as the elevation which includes the primary entrance of the building.

   15. Pedestrian pathways shall be provided between access points, entryways, public gathering
       nodes, and parking areas.
Building material placement and material colors shall be used to distinguish residential building
   VISTA 600 WEST                                                                                        Page 4
                                                             GARDNER COMPANY
elevations from other residential buildings in the immediate area, as approved by the ACC.

Landscape

   1.     The landscaping shall define and enhance primary public entrances into each project.

   2. Ornamental landscaping shall be strategically designed to provide intimate outdoor spaces
      for public amenities and at pedestrian pathways and entrances.

   3. Landscape design shall promote water conservation by the use of water- wise, drip irrigation,
      and drought tolerant plant types.

   4.     A 10-foot landscaping buffer shall be required along the east property line adjacent to the existing hotel.

   4. The tree palette for each project shall be a combination of deciduous and non-deciduous
      trees and shade and ornamental trees.

   5.     The initial tree size shall have a minimum 2-inch caliper and be a minimum 6-ft high.

   6.    Landscaping berms measuring 3-feet in height will be used around the perimeter of the office
        park, when possible, to help minimize the visual impact of the parking field.

   6. Parking to be screened with landscaping when possible, including the proposed parking
      structure.

   7.     Minimum 5’ of landscaping is required around perimeter of the entire project.

   8. Public Use Space (private or public): Public Use Space maybe in the form of landscape
      areas, landscape areas with walkways, hardscape areas, pool deck/pool/spa areas, areas
      with a change in hardscape such as color/material changes, areas with lighting suc h as
      bollards or pole lighting, and the 600 west pedestrian zone (landscaping, 4’ soft path, 58’
      concrete sidewalk and 4’ park strip). See Exhibit C.

   9. All multiple-family projects shall submit a landscaping plan in accordance with Chapter 23,
      “Landscaping and Screening,” of this title unless otherwise specified within the se
      development guidelines.

   10. Landscaping shall be used as a land use buffer where appropriate, especially between the
       parking structure and the adjacent hotel .

   11. Detention basins shall be adequately landscaped and maintained.

   12. Drought tolerant landscaping is highly encouraged.
Parking

   1.     The parking for office buildings shall be a minimum of 3 stalls and per 1,000 square feet.

   1.     The parking for retail buildings shall be a minimum of 1.87 stalls per 1,000 square feet.

   VISTA 600 WEST                                                                                           Page 5
                                                      GARDNER COMPANY
   2.   Parking stalls shall be 18-feet in length and 9-feet in width.

   3. Landscape islands will measure 8-feet in width and 18-feet in length shall be placed at either
      end of parking rows longer than 16 stalls.

   4.   The parking for Hotels shall be a minimum of .75 stall per room.

   4. The parking for residential buildings shall be a minimum of 1.68 stalls per dwelling unit.
      Driveways and garages shall count toward s total parking requirements.

   5.   Parking to be screened with landscaping when possible.

   6. Parking Structures will be allowed (if needed as determined by the developer) as part of the
      project to accommodate higher density land uses, otherwise surface parking will be the
      main form of parking for all land uses.

               -Parking structures shall include the use of the same or consistent building façade
               materials as the retail and residential office building(s) and be designed as an
               integral component of the site plan and architectural theme. Acceptable
               complementary materials added to the concrete parking structure are those that are
               similar in durability, color and/or appearance of the residential and retail office
               building facades.

               -Parking structures shall follow best CPTED practices and provide for well-lit and
               visible pedestrian corridors, visible parking areas, security devices, and natural
               surveillance both inside and outside of the structure.

               -Landscaping and architectural materials, forms, and scale shall be used to enhance
               the parking structure.
               -Pedestrian pathways shall connect the pedestrian exit from the parking structure to
               the buildings it serves.
               -When adjacent to a public right -of-way, the building design shall include human
               scale detailing to enhance the relationship with the pedestrian.

   7. Shared parking is encouraged and can be double counted for the differing land uses, such as
      office retail and residential.

Lighting

   1.    Parking lot lighting in commercial areas shall provide adequate illumination at a minimum
        .5 foot-candles and max of 4 foot-candles.

   2.   Parking lot lighting in commercial areas shall utilize cutoff type fixtures.

   3.   Parking lot lighting in commercial areas shall not be taller than 30-feet.

   4.    All residential areas shall submit a lighting plan that illustrates lighting accommodation for
        automobile and pedestrian networks.
   VISTA 600 WEST                                                                             Page 6
                                                          GARDNER COMPANY
   5. Exterior lighting along streets shall be pedestrian in scale.

   6. Low level bollard lighting is encouraged for illumination of internal pedestrian pathways.

Signage
        The following standards are for all uses within the Vista 600 West MAP.

   1. Each monument sign shall have a uniform, ar chitecturally compatible design, with faces not
      larger than one hundred (100) square feet. Monument signs shall not exceed seven feet
      (7') in height and fourteen feet (14') in width.

   2. Wall signs may be installed by individual businesses/buildings on freestanding and in -line
      single-/multi-tenant buildings and on hotels. Signs shall have individually illuminated
      letters or decorative sign cabinets. Where sign cabinets are utilized, they shall be b uilt into
      the architectural fascia.

   3. Suspended, Blade Type Project Signs: Suspended or blade type projecting signs are allowed
      provided they are not more than fifty (50) square feet of sign area. Each elevation will be
      allowed one suspended or blade type s ign. Suspended or blade type signs may be provided
      along pedestrian walkways and shall maintain a minimum clearance of seven feet (7') above
      the pavement.

   4. Tower Signs: One tower sign shall be allowed for each hotel. The sign may be a multi -
      tenant sign and shall be no taller than forty feet (40') with a maximum sign area of two
      hundred (200) square feet.

   4. The location of all signs must be approved by the City Engineer to ensure clearance of sight
      distance requirements.

   5.   All monument and tower signs shall be located outside of any public utility easement.

Commercial, Office and Retail Uses: Commercial, office and rRetail uses shall be allowed the
following:

   1. One monument sign may be allowed is allowed per office building and one monument sign
      is allowed at the entrance to each office retail district, depending on the approval from the
      architectural committee.

   2. Wall signs shall be allowed for every one linear foot of building length, two (2) square feet
      of wall signage on hotel, office and retail buildings.

   3. Wayfinding signs shall be allowed in the project. The overall height shall not exceed eight
      feet (8') and the area of the sign shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet.

   4.   Flags or banners placed on light poles shall be at least seven feet (7') above the pavement.

Residential Uses: Each residential use shall be allowed the following signage:

   1.   Two (2) freestanding monument signs per the standards outlined above.
   VISTA 600 WEST                                                                           Page 7
                                                     GARDNER COMPANY
   2.    Portable banner signs, with a maximum area of fifty (50) square feet shall be allowed in
        each residential project.

   3.   Flags and A-frame signs shall be allowed during lease times for each residential project.

   4.    Wall signs are permitted as follows: for every one (1) linear foot of building length, two (2)
        square feet of wall signage shall be allowed on each building elevation.

   5. Electronic message signs are permitted on any residential building. All electronic message
      signs shall comply with subsection below.

Electronic message signs are permitted on any hotel, office or retail buildings. Tower signs for
hotels may also be electronic message signs. All electronic message signs shall comply with
subsection below.

   1. Full color messages or images only and the use of single colored text and images is
      prohibited.

   2. Each message/advertisement displayed on an E MC shall remain static for a minimum of
      eight (8) seconds. Animation, flashing, starburst or other similar frame effects are
      prohibited.

Pixel pitch shall be as follows:

   1.    EMC’s within the MAP, but not directed toward Bangerter Highway may shall have a tru e
        pixel pitch between one millimeter (1 mm) and ten millimeters (10 mm) due to closer
        proximity of travelers to signs.

   2.    EMC’s directed toward Bangerter Highway shall have a true pixel pitch between one
        millimeter (1 mm) and sixteen millimeters (16 mm) due to higher speeds and distance
        between travelers and signs.

   3.    No EMC shall utilize a white or solid colored background for greater than or equal to fifty
        percent (50%) of the sign area.

   4.   All EMC’s are required to comply with the following LED sign illuminati on requirements:

        -All permitted EMC’s shall be equipped with a sensor or other device that automatically
        determines the ambient illumination and is programmed to automatically dim according to
        ambient light conditions, or that can be adjusted to comply wit h the 0.3 foot-candle
        measurements. In addition, EMCs must have a default mechanism to turn off the sign
        within twenty four (24) hours of a reported malfunction.

        -Sign illumination levels for EMC’s shall never, at maximum display intensity, exceed 0.3
        foot-candle over ambient lighting conditions when measured at the distance based on the
        formula of square root of area of sign times one hundred (100). Light cutoff devices shall
        minimize light above the sign.

        -The illuminance of an EMC shall be measured wit h an illuminance meter set to measure
    VISTA 600 WEST                                                                            Page 8
                                               GARDNER COMPANY
   foot-candles accurate to at least two (2) decimals. Illuminance shall be measured with the
   EMC off, and again with the EMC displaying a white image. All measurements shall be taken
   perpendicular to the face of the EM C at the distance determined by the total square
   footage of the EMC as set forth in this subsection.

   -The applicant shall submit a photometric matrix (showing the dispersal in foot -candles)
   showing that the sign meets all the requirements of this code.

   -The owner shall be required to submit written certification from the sign manufacturer
   that the light intensity shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in the above table
   and photocell dimming prior to the issuance of a sign permit.




VISTA 600 WEST                                                                        Page 9
                         Retail
                       5,000 SF


                                    Retail
                                  5,000 SF

                                                     Retail
        Retail
                                                   5,000 SF




                                                                          Residential




                                                               Club
                 Residential                                  House

                                         Residential



                                                                      Residential       Residential



                                                                                                       MAINT.
                                                                                                      GARAGE




VISTA 11 SITE - OPEN SPACE
                                                                    RETAIL      = 189,946 SF
                                                                    RESIDENTIAL = 473, 739 SF

                                                                    TOTAL        = 663,685 SF




     Retail
     TSD-3
     2.34 acres              Retail
     101,902 S.F.            TSD-3
                             2.02 acres
                             88,044 S.F.




                                           Residential
                    Residential            TSD-3
                    TSD-3                  6.13 acres
                    4.75 acres             266,834 S.F.
                    206,905 S.F.
                                                           MAINT.
                                                          GARAGE




VISTA 11 SITE - LAND USE
  4' SOFT PATH                    Retail
                                5,000 SF
                                                      ENHANCED
                                                      LANDSCAPING
                                             Retail
                                           5,000 SF

                                                              Retail
                 Retail
                                                            5,000 SF




                                                                                   Residential




                                                                        Club
                          Residential                                  House

                                                  Residential



                                                                               Residential       Residential


                                                                                                               4' SOFT PATH

                                                                                                                MAINT.
                                                                                                               GARAGE




VISTA 11 SITE
                                      SE
        ENHANCED
                                         CO
        LANDSCAPING AND
        MONUMENT SIGN                       ND
                                       EN      AR
                                          TR      Y
                                             Y

                                                                       PR
                             Retail                                       IMA
                           5,000 SF                                    EN     RY
                                                                          TR
                                                                             Y
                                             Retail
                                           5,000 SF

                                                              Retail                       ENHANCED
                                                                                           LANDSCAPING AND
        Retail
                                                            5,000 SF                       MONUMENT SIGN




                                                                                    Residential




                                                                         Club
                     Residential                                        House

                                                  Residential



                                                                                Residential                  Residential



                                                                                                                            MAINT.
                                                                                                                           GARAGE




                                                                                     ENHANCED
                                                                                     LANDSCAPING



                                                                 SECONDARY
                                                                   ENTRY




VISTA 11 SITE - ENTRY POINTS
                                                                                                                Pedestrian Circulation
                                                                                                                Perimeter Path / Loop Trail




                         Retail
                       5,000 SF


                                    Retail
                                  5,000 SF

                                                     Retail
        Retail
                                                   5,000 SF




                                                                          Residential




                                                               Club
                 Residential                                  House

                                         Residential



                                                                      Residential       Residential



                                                                                                       MAINT.
                                                                                                      GARAGE




VISTA 11 SITE - PEDESTRIAN CIRCULATION
                                   Open Space




                              MAINT.
                             GARAGE




VISTA 11 SITE - OPEN SPACE
                SE
                  CO
                     ND
                 EN     AR
                    TR     Y
                       Y

                                                   PR
                                                      IMA
                                                   EN     RY
                                                      TR
                                                         Y




                                    Cross Access
                                                                MAINT.
                                                               GARAGE




                               SECONDARY
                                 ENTRY




VISTA 11 SITE - VEHICULAR NETWORK
