Draft minutes 02/24/2022
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2022 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:           Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker, Commissioner Lisa Fowler, Mary
                         Squire, and Gary Ogden and Alternate Commissioner Susan Nixon

ABSENT:                  Chairman Andrew Adams, Commissioner John Van Hoff and Alternate
                         Commissioners DeLaina Tonks and Tab Bingham


STAFF PRESENT:           Jennifer Jastremsky, Mike Barker, Brien Maxfield, Spencer DuShane,
                         Amie Salazar, Maryann Pickering, Don Buckley and Todd Draper

6:30 PM Business Meeting:


    1.      Public Hearing: Draper 138 2 Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment (Legislative
            Action)

            On the request of Charlie Openshaw, representing CJO Holdings, LLC for a Zoning Map
            Amendment from RA1 and OR to the CC zone and a Land Use from Office Service to
            Community/Neighborhood Commercial. The property encompasses 1.44 acres and is located
            at 231 East 13800 South. Applications TEXTMAP-15-2022 and TEXTMAP-16-2022. Staff
            Contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager, presented the staff report. She indicated the property is located at
138 South and Bangerter Highway. The property is designated as Office Service in the General Plan and
the applicant is requesting a Neighborhood Commercial designation. This designation is location south and
east of the subject property. The property is split zoned with RA1 and OR Districts. The applicant is
proposing to change the zoning to CC Community Commercial District. The CC District is located to the
south of the property. She showed street view images of the property and noted they site is vacant. Parking,
landscaping and architecture will be discussed during the site plan process.

Commissioner Fowler asked if there is a chart comparing allowable uses for each district.

Jennifer Jastremsky directed the Planning Commission to the zoning code. She overviewed the uses within
the CC code. She mentioned retail, service and restaurant uses are allowed. She explained there are different
restaurant categories in the code, but this district allows all restaurant types.

Commissioner Fowler asked if carwashes are allowed.

Jennifer Jastremsky stated carwashes are a conditional use. She indicated the applicant is wanting to
construct retail and restaurant buildings on the property. There is no development agreement that limits the
uses.

Commissioner Fowler asked if drive-throughs are allowed in banks and restaurants. Ms. Jastremsky stated
that they are allowed.

Vice Chair Hawker asked if there is a right turn only coming out onto Bangerter Highway.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 24, 2022

Brien Maxfield, City Engineer replied that they would have to work with UDOT on spacing
requirements. Access would be off 138 and not Bangerter.

Jennifer Jastremsky stated they will evaluate access during the site plan.

Commissioner Nixon mentioned there is a comment from engineering that cross access will be
considered. She asked if the zone is approved would the property need to meet the site plan code
in place at the time.

Jennifer Jastremsky replied that she is correct.

Vice Chair Hawker invited the applicant to speak.

Charlie Openshaw stated they have owned the property for five years. He stated he has not submitted for a
carwash in the past and it is not his intent. He would like a general retail use on the property like a quick
serve tenant and maybe a multi-tenant building. Nothing specific has been decided at this point.

Commissioner Squire asked if he has spoken with the adjacent property owners.

Charlie Openshaw indicated that he has spoken with them. He noted they are planning a large retail use like
a grocery store for the property, but this may change. He stated they do plan for an access point on the rear
of their property for the time when they develop, they can share it.

Vice Chairman Hawker opened the public hearing.

Greg Kielsmeier stated he has been in the area of 32 years and mentioned there is a construction company
east of him and now he has lost his resale value due to the area. He asked what is going to happen to his
property.

Austin Bankhead asked what the plan is for the property west of the subject property.

Vice Chairman Hawker closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Fowler asked for specifics regarding the applicant’s plans.

Charlie Openshaw commented they would like an access of the east end of their property. He stated they
have discussed access with their neighboring property which would include a portion of his property. They
are open to being cooperative.

Commissioner Ogden asked if the property goes all the way to Bangerter Highway. She replied that it does
and showed it in the map.

Commissioner Squire stated she has a hard time going with a retail district when homes are located nearby.
The current zone appears to be better as it is set up as a buffer district.

Jennifer Jastremsky explained what the land use map and general plan are in comparison to the zoning map.




                                                     2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 24, 2022
Commissioner Ogden stated they are uncertain with what is going to happen in the surrounding area. He
mentioned things are headed in the direction of retail. He noted he is not sure if this is the right change at
this time.

Commissioner Fowler stated the owners on the corner has asked to develop in the past.

Vice Chair Hawker stated that the applicant is looking at the highest and best use for the property. He
commented people have hoped someone would assemble all of the properties and develop it at the same
time but for some reason this as not happened.

Commissioner Nixon stated that this is the perfect location for commercial due to the intersection and high
traffic. She asked if the property were to change to commercial how would buffering be handled between
the residential zone.

Jennifer Jastremsky explained the code requires a 20 feet landscape buffer with a six-foot wall between
commercial and residential zones. The applicant may request a deviation through the zoning administrator
of a 10-foot landscape buffer and eight-foot wall.

Commissioner Fowler stated she is worried about impacts from commercial on to the adjacent neighbors.
She does not believe this is a good thing to do with existing residential on the same street. She believes the
current zone is appropriate.

Vice Chair Hawker mentioned, due to the size of the lot the retail buildings will not be large. Space will be
required for access and parking which reduces the size of the buildings.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to send a positive recommendation to the City Council for
a zoning map amendment, as requested by Charlie Openshaw, representing CJO Holdings, LLC for
the Draper 138 Zoning Map Amendment, Application TEXTMAP-15-2022, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated February 15, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Nixon

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-1 in favor of the motion. Commissioners
Hawker, Ogden, Fowler, and Nixon voted, “Aye”. Commissioner Squire voted “Nay”.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon motioned to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council
for a land use map amendment, as requested by Charlie Openshaw, representing CJO Holdings,
LLC for the Draper 138 Land Use Map Amendment, Application TEXTMAP-16-2022, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated February 15, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-1 in favor of the motion. Commissioners
Hawker, Ogden, Fowler, and Nixon voted, “Aye”. Commissioner Squire voted “Nay”.

    2.      Public Hearing: 136 Center Additional Parking Site Plan (Administrative Action)

            On the request of Ryan Simmons, representing The Boyer Company, for a Site Plan for a
            parking lot on 3.37 acres of property located at 13697 S 200 W. Application SPR-179-2021.
            Staff Contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.



                                                      3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 24, 2022
Jennifer Jastremsky presented the staff report. She indicated that this is the last parcel in the 136 Center
Commercial Special District. This district was created in 2016 and allows for a variety of uses. The property
is located in the Commercial Special District land use designation. The applicant is proposing a parking lot
addition to serve the office buildings on the property. There is approximately 305,000 square feet of office
space. She explained with the additional parking the development will fall within the range of the allowed
parking. This parking lot provides 376 stalls to the CSD. The parking lot will connect into existing parking
aisles. Center landscape islands are required in the CSD. She overviewed the landscape plan and highlighted
a center boulevard.

Commissioner Nixon asked why they are planning for 5.79 stalls per 1,000 square feet. She believes this is
a high amount.

Jennifer Jastremsky indicated the CSD allows three space to eight spaces for 1,000 square feet.

Vice Chair Hawker invited the applicant to speak.

Logan Fawcett, representing the Boyer Company, stated there may be potential to build out the parking lot
in the future. Both buildings are fully occupied. He indicated people are starting to come back to the office.

Commissioner Nixon asked if there are ADA stalls on the site.

Mr. Fawcett stated the ADA stalls are located in front of the buildings.

Commissioner Nixon stated parking lots are typically not aesthetically pleasing and asked if a parking
structure could be required.

Jennifer Jastremsky mentioned a parking structure is not required but there are requirements if the applicant
chooses to construct a structure.

Vice Chair Hawker opened the public hearing. There were no comments. He then closed the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to approve the site plan, as requested by Ryan Simmons,
representing the Boyer Company, for the 136 Center Additional Parking Site Plan, Application SPR-
179-2021, based on the findings and subject conditions listed in the staff report, dated February 16,
2022.

Second: Commissioner Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion. Commissioners
Hawker, Ogden, Squire, Fowler, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.


    3.      Public Hearing: Draper Galena Park Office Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment
            (Legislative Action)

            On the request of Ryan Simmons, representing The Boyer Company, for a Zoning Map
            Amendment from RA1 to CC and a Land Use Map Amendment from Residential Low/Medium
            Density to Neighborhood Commercial. The property encompasses 3.7 acres and is located at
            681 West 12300 South. Application TEXTMAP-195-2021 and TEXTMAP-196-2021. Staff
            contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, Jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov



                                                      4
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 24, 2022
Jennifer Jastremsky presented the staff report. She indicated the property contains a split land use and
zoning designation. A couple parcels are designated Neighborhood Commercial and other within the
Residential Low/Medium in the Land Use Map. The applicant is requesting to designate all properties to
the Neighborhood Commercial category. This change would affect 1.93 acres of the property. One property
is zoned Community Commercial and the other are zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting to rezone 2.77
acres to Community Commercial. The intent is that all properties will have the same designations. She
presented a zoning and land use table. She mentioned all properties have a single-family home.

Commissioner Fowler asked if the residential home on the west side of the property is in use. Jennifer
Jastremsky responded that she did not know. She mentioned the applicant desires to redevelop the
properties into an office building. The CC District limits height to 45 feet.

Vice Chair Hawker asked if there is an Apollo Burger on the south side. Jennifer Jastremsky stated there is
and she listed the other uses surrounding the property. He stated there would be no more residential
remaining after this.

Jennifer Jastremsky noted another residence and mentioned it is owned by the landscape company.

Logan Fawcett, Boyer Company, stated the proposed rezone is for a new office building. He mentioned the
building will be occupied by an owner-user. He stated there are still people living in the homes.

Vice Chair Hawker opened the public hearing.

LaVar Christensen, President of Draper Land Development mentioned he is there with the Ken and Mindy
Doyle, owners of All States Landscaping, stated there is a lot of multifamily across the street. He stated
other property owners are planning to come to the city and request a zone in order to provide the highest
and best use for their properties. He stated a multifamily property would be attractive on his client’s property
and indicated the Galena property is a great amenity. He stated the Boyer property should come in as a
mixed-use development and indicated they could upgrade their request to a mixed-use project. He
mentioned they could make the street scape very attractive. He does not want a precedent set that will
require all other properties to be built as office only.

Daryl Feilding stated that he works with the Doyels. He commented that a mixed-use development would
be preferred to offer retail, office and high-density housing. He indicated that based on the general plan
goals of providing a wide range of housing would be achieved through a mixed-use development.

Vice Chair Hawker closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Fowler noted the proposed land use and zoning designations match the landscape company’s
zoning. She feels this is an appropriate request.

Vice Chair Hawker stated he does not have any issue with the request.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon motioned to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council
for the zoning map amendment as requested by, Ryan Simmons, representing the Boyer Company
for the Draper Galena Office Park Zoning Map Amendment, Application TEXTMAP-195-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated February 15, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Fowler




                                                       5
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 24, 2022
Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion. Commissioners
Hawker, Ogden, Squire, Fowler, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.


Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council
for the land use map amendment as requested by, Ryan Simmons, representing the Boyer Company
for the Draper Galena Office Park Land Use Map Amendment, Application TEXTMAP-196-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated February 15, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion. Commissioners
Hawker, Ogden, Squire, Fowler, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.


    4.       Public Hearing: Sole @ Rockwell Text Amendment (Legislative Action)

             On the request by Bruce Baird, representing Rockwell Apartments, LLC, for a zoning text
             amendment to the MARF zoning district. The proposed changes will modify parking and
             landscaping standards. The MARF zone is located at approximately 356 W. Marion Vista
             Drive. Application: TEXTMAP-014-2022. Staff contact: Maryann Pickering at 801-576-6391
             or maryann.pickering@daperutah.gov

Maryann Pickering presented the staff report and showed the properties affected by the MARF zone. She
indicated this is the only place in the city where the district exists. The land use designation for the property
is Commercial Special District. She stated the MARF district was adopted in August 2019. The proposed
changes include modifying landscaping in the buffer area where emergency stairs are located and reducing
overall parking for the residential component of the district. These changes are requested now since a site
design is in process. She provided a breakdown of the unit types and indicated there will be a total of 506
units.

Commissioner Squire asked if the density is limited by the parking.

Maryann Pickering stated that this is a form-based code which is limited by the development standards.

Commissioner Squire asked if reducing the required amount of parking would reduce the number of units.

Maryann Pickering stated they did not know the number of units when the code was adopted. The proposal
is under the height limit. There is no limit on the number of residential units. She explained that more units
will require additional parking.

Vice Chair Hawker stated that the property is near Pluralsite. Maryann Pickering overviewed the aerial
photo of the property and called out surrounding uses and zoning districts.

Commissioner Squire asked if they would need to get approval from the state for right of way
improvements.

Brien Maxfield, City Engineer mentioned that the applicant is required to improve their frontage
on Minuteman Drive. Potentially UDOT may widen the frontage road in the future.




                                                       6
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 24, 2022
Bruce Baird, Attorney for Applicant, stated they are in a process of setting up a meeting with staff and
UDOT to figure out improvements. He stated that parking overflow typically impacts adjacent
neighborhoods. This property is not near a neighborhood and these issues would not exist. He referenced
the Point of the Mountain Transportation Study and indicated there is a plan for a TRAX line close to the
property. He stated that originally, they did not know what would be constructed on the MARF property.
What they thought the mix would be with the units turned out not to be. Now they do know that types of
units and hired Hales Engineering to conduct a parking study. They believe 746 stalls provides enough
parking as the project is designed now. The units are important in this location due to the high cost of
housing. He explained that they decided to default to incorporate the city’s landscaping requirements. He
noted an issue where conflicts arose due to the location of stairwells.

Commissioner Fowler asked which parcel will contain residential uses and will parking be shared between
the parcels.

Mr. Baird stated it is the south parcel and sharing will be allowed. There will be landscaping and stairs
separating the parcels.

Commissioner Nixon asked about the proposed parking rate of 1.5 parking stalls and noted the comparable
projects used and stated the success of the project depends on management. She mentioned her concern
with the lack of visitor parking as only .2 visitor parking stalls is proposed and she would like it increased
to .5 stalls per units.

Scottie Duclos, Hales Engineering commented that they did not use all of the studies in the appendix and
only used the ones with similar bedroom ranges and not near transit facilities.

Mr. Baird stated they had guest parking analyzed and found that units with smaller footprints tend to have
less guest and therefore need less guest parking.

Commissioner Fowler asked when the counts were taken. She believes weekends and weekdays would be
different.

Mr. Duclos stated the studies were performed on week nights from midnight – 4am when most people are
home.

Vice Chair Hawker asked if the units would be rented or sold.

Mr. Baird stated they will be rented.

Vice Chair Hawker opened the public hearing.

There were no comments. He closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Fowler stated she feels strongly about not recommending the reduction in parking.

Vice Chair Hawker asked if there were issues with the other modification.

Commissioner Ogden expressed his concerns regarding the parking reduction.

Commissioner Nixon stated she agrees with the consultant but would like to see a little more parking than
what was proposed.



                                                      7
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 24, 2022
Commissioner Squire stated that they already have a reduction from the standard city code and they want
to go below this. Due to the scale of the project, if the parking becomes problematic it will get really bad.

Commissioner Nixon stated that typically a reduction in parking is done when the site is near transit.

Commissioner Fowler stated the applicant is still working out fire code issues.

Don Buckley, Fire Marshal mentioned they do not have other concerns. The modifications allow them to
meet code.

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to send a negative recommendation to the City Council for
Sole @ Rockwell Zoning Text Amendment, as requested by Bruce Baird, representing Rockwell
Apartments, LLC, Application TEXTMAP-014-2022, based on the findings listed in staff report
dated February 15, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-2 in favor of the motion. Commissioners
Squire, Fowler and Ogden voted “Aye”. Commissioners Hawker and Nixon voted “Nay”.


    5.       Public Hearing: City Initiate 2021 Bulk Text Amendment #2 (Legislative Action)

             This item was continued from the January 13, 2022 and February 10, 2022 Planning
             Commission meetings to this date.

             On the request of Draper City for at Text Amendment to Titles 9 and 17 of Draper City
             Municipal Code in order to amend general regulations pertaining to definitions, exactions,
             special regulations in commercial zones, deviations from design standards, building design,
             site design, parking location, parking area design and construction, height limitations and
             exceptions, cross access and connectivity, and other typographical and de minimis
             corrections, this application is known as the City Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendment #2.
             Application: TEXTMAP-0203-2021. Staff Contact: Todd Draper, (801) 576-6335,
             todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Todd Draper, Planner stated that they have reviewed most of the proposed amendments in the past. He
stated they addressed standards related to site and building design, deviations and accuracy and consistency
in the application of the ordinance. He provided an overview of the changes:

        Adding definition for Abut, Abutting and Cross Access. Mixed Use Center was changed to Mixed
         Use.
        They added a new Section: Exactions which formally recognizes the city’s ability to imposed
         exactions on development and provides for a review of exactions by the director. It provides the
         ability to appeal decision of the director.
        Under special regulations for commercial development, they are proposing to remove current,
         essentially unlimited, deviations to commercial building height. They would instead cap additional
         height allowances to architectural features and not allow more than 14 feet for additional height.
         The additional height shall cover an area equal to or less than 10% of floor area of the uppermost
         floor. Buildings requesting a height deviation must also provide specific architectural detailing of
         the façade or roofline.



                                                      8
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 24, 2022
       Clarifies which design standards can be deviated from, proposes the elimination of the ability to
        deviate from height and roofline design standards, and eliminates existing subjective standards that
        are unable to be enforced. Adds clarification for individual criteria that proposed developments
        must meet to request a deviation. The amendments seek to strengthen the required responsibility of
        the applicant to demonstrate compliance with the deviation criteria to the Planning Commission by
        providing a written analysis from a licensed professional.
       Amendments would strengthen requirements for rooflines and parapets walls to vary architecturally
        and avoid monotonous rooflines. New standards for screening of mechanical equipment are
        proposed that will allow additional building up to the height of the equipment with a maximum of
        14 feet of additional height.
       Amendments to parking and circulation. Includes updates from cross access for vehicular and
        pedestrian traffic. Clarifies the ability to request a traffic study and changes the term “Deadmen”
        to “wheel stops”.
       Emphasizes cross access and connectivity between existing and anticipated parking areas on
        abutting properties.
       Clarifies that mixed use developments are required to have paved easements for cross access.
        Deviation requirements are provided for.
       Additional height is limited to things like spires and towers not used for human occupancy.
       Similar definitions were referenced between the Subdivision Code and Zoning Code. Stub Street
        definition was added to the Subdivision Code.
       A new Exactions section was added to the Subdivision Ordinance as well as cross access and
        connectivity standards.

Mike Barker, Attorney explained his analysis of their cross-access amendments.

Chris Hogle, Attorney for Utah Capital stated that the government cannot take private property for public
use without compensation. The government cannot also force a landowner to use their property for a public
purpose. He mentioned that this is a form of a takings, known as an exaction. He indicated that some
exactions are legal and others are illegal. He stated that an access easement is an exaction as it says mixed
use and non-residential developments “shall” provided access for abutting for mixed use or non-residential
uses. He stated that they do not know the proposed development will be. He stated that a determination of
the impact was done then they could see if an exaction is warranted.

Sam Wilkinson referenced proposed constitution taking language in the code and read the criteria for
determining if an exaction is a taking or not. He asked how can the City enact a text change that in a blanket
fashion?

Commissioner Fowler stated that she does not believe it is the planning commission’s job to make a
constitutional call on the proposed code.

Commissioner Squire mentioned it is the city attorney’s job to make this determination and they have
looked into it.

Mike Barker stated he is still considering Mr. Hogle’s letter. He mentioned he has looked at the State
Ombudsmen’s determinations and court decisions. He indicated the City needs to have standards within the
code. For an individual analysis of an exaction to occur. He mentioned they are cognizant of the constitution
and will review the applicant’s development proposal once they make a submittal.

Commissioner Ogden asked if there are changes needed, would this need to come back to the Planning
Commission.



                                                      9
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 24, 2022
Mike Barker stated that it could be handled at the City Council and would not need to come back.

Commissioner Ogden indicated that every project that comes in they would look at individually and only
require exactions when necessary.

Commissioner Nixon stated she believes the code has been thoroughly vetted and the Planning Comission
is only a recommending body.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon motioned to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council
for the text amendments as requested by Draper City, for the city initiated 2021 Bulk Text
Amendment #2, TEXTMAP-0203-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in
the staff report, dated February 18, 2022.

Second: Commissioner Fowler

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-2 in favor of the motion. Commissioners
Squire, Fowler, and Nixon voted, “Aye”. Commissioners Hawker and Ogden voted, “Nay”.

6.      Adjournment

        Commissioner Fowler made a motion to adjourn the meeting. All were in favor.
        The meeting adjourned at 8:50p.m.




                                                  10
