Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: January 11, 2022
Re: Vista 600 West – Master Area Plan Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Master Area Plan (MAP) and Text Amendment for approximately 15.24 acres located on the east side of 600 West, at approximately 13645 South 600 West. The property is currently zoned TSD . The applicant is requesting that a MAP Amendment and Text Amendment be approved to eliminate the office and hotel uses from the plan and increase the number of residential buildings.
The Planning Commission reviewed the request at their December 16, 2021 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation on a 5-0 vote. The findings are as follows: The findings for approval as are follows:
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.   The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.   The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
5.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
6.   The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
The findings for denial as are follows:
1.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.   The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.   The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan.
5.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit.
6.   The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1521 1/4/2022 Cover Memo Ord 1522 1/4/2022 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 1/4/2022 Cover Memo