Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: November 10, 2022
Re: Living Planet Aquarium Science Learning Center – Amended Site Plan Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of an Amended Site Plan for approximately 2.05 acres located on the east side of Lone Peak Parkway, at approximately 12047 S Lone Peak Parkway . The property is currently zoned CSD-LPA . The applicant is requesting that an Amended Site Plan be approved in order to add a new building to the site. The new building will feature events space, classrooms, exhibit areas, and administrative offices. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The site has been developed as a phased development.
2.   The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in Title 9 of the DCMC, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
3.   The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4.   The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5.   The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of DCMC, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
For denial:
1.   The entire site was not developed at one time.
2.   The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in Title 9 of the DCMC, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
3.   The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4.   The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5.   The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of DCMC, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 11/4/2022 Cover Memo