                            Development Review Committee
                                 1020 East Pioneer Road
                                   Draper, Utah 84020


                                          STAFF REPORT
                                        September 15, 2022

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: October 13, 2022

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By:            Jonathan Concidine, Planner
                        Planning Division
                        Community Development Department
                        801-576-6522, j.concidine@draperutah.gov

Re: First Steps Foot Zone – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
Request
     Application No.: USE-167-2022
     Applicant:        Sara Derrick, representing First Steps Foot Zone
     Project Location: 12646 S. 600 E.
     Current Zoning: R3 (Single Family Residential, 13,000 sq. ft. min. lot size)
                       Zone
     Acreage:          0.34 Acres (Approximately 14,800 ft2)
     Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
                       Permit in the R3 zone.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit for approximately 0.34 acres located on the west side of 600 E., at 12646 S.
600 E. (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned R3. The applicant is
requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for
personal care business to be run out of the home.

The home was built in 1994. It is Lot No. 420 of the Pheasant Brook Estates Phase
4 subdivision. The plat was recorded in 1994.


ANALYSIS




First Steps Foot Zone                                         App. # USE-167-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   1
General Plan and Zoning.

 Table 1                 General Plan and Zoning Designations              Exhibit
 Existing Land           Residential Medium Density                        Exhibit D
 Use
 Current Zoning          R3                                                Exhibit E
 Proposed Use            Single-family Residence
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                 R3
    West                 R3
    North                R3
    South                R3

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of
the R3 zone is to “permit medium density residential development without special
mitigation requirements. This zone is intended to provide incentives to foster
residential development with little impact on its surroundings and on municipal
services, and to generally preserve the semirural character called for in the density
element of the general plan.”




First Steps Foot Zone                                         App. # USE-167-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   2
Home Occupation. First Steps Foot Zone is a small business focused on the health,
wellbeing, and education of clients. According to the applicant, a foot zone is a
noninvasive holistic approach to bring the body back to homeostasis, similar to a
foot massage. The business will accept clients Tuesday and Thursday evenings
between 8-10 pm. One to two clients will be booked per work day, with each
appointment to last between 1-1.5 hours. No walk-ins will be accepted. There will
be no signs or postings in front of the property. The front lights will be turned on
for visibility, walkways will be shoveled and salted during winter months, and
clients will park in the 30-foot wide driveway. The applicant will be the sole
employee.

The DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request,
are as follows:

        A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a
           person who resides in the dwelling where the home occupation is located.
           Such person shall be the primary provider of the labor, work, or service
           provided in the home occupation.
              a. Applicant owns the home.

        B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be
           obtained from and continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6,
           chapter 11 of this code.
              a. Applicant will obtain a business license.

        C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the
           dwelling may be employed in the home occupation. Nonfamily or
           nonresident employees shall be limited to one person.
              a. Employees will be family members.

        D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing,
           electrical and all other city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections
           during reasonable hours by city officials may occur as necessary to assure
           compliance with regulations.
              a. Facilities will comply with code.

        E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed
           two hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No
           outside storage is allowed.
              a. Inventory will not exceed 250 sq. ft.

        F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence
           from the exterior of a dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose
           than that of a dwelling. No activities shall be carried on outside the
           dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home




First Steps Foot Zone                                          App. # USE-167-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   3
            occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking required
            for a home occupation.
                a. Structures and yards will not be modified.

        G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the
           dwelling which is offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor,
           smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic interference, or noise shall be prohibited.
              a. Home occupation will not cause a nuisance.

        H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and
           secondary to the primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The
           home occupation shall not disrupt the normal residential character of the
           neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more than twenty five
           percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.
              a. Home occupation is the secondary use.

        I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26,
           "Signs", of this title.
              a. Signs will comply with the DCMC.

        J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate
           pedestrian, parking, or vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily
           associated with the zone in which the use is located. All parking shall be
           provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for drop off
           traffic.
               a. No traffic impacts are anticipated.

        K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there
           shall be no vehicles or equipment on the property associated with the
           home occupation which would not normally be found at a residence. No
           signage for the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.
              a. No vehicles associated with the home occupation will be found on
                  the property.

        L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not
           be used for any activities or storage of any materials associated with the
           home occupation.
              a. Yards will not be used for the home occupation.

        M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare
           or limited preschool facility shall not be considered customers.
               a. Recommend customers be limited to 5 per week.

        N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public
           utilities in excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for
           residential uses.
               a. The home occupation will not require excessive utility demand.




First Steps Foot Zone                                          App. # USE-167-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   4
        O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and
           contained within the primary structure on the property.
              a. The home occupation will occur within the primary structure.

        P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as
           permitted or conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-
           family or a multiple-family dwelling, subject to the standards found within
           this section and section 9-34-060 of this chapter. Businesses within
           multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from the
           respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case
           of apartments, if the business proposes any employees, customers or
           business vehicles.
               a. Home occupation will take place in a single-family dwelling.

        Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all
           applicable state and local laws and regulations regarding residential
           childcare, including, but not limited to, provisions of the Utah child care
           licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 26-39-101 et
           seq., as amended, and the residential certificate childcare standards as
           set forth in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as
           amended. In addition, cottage food production operations are regulated
           and inspected by the Utah department of agriculture. Any food related
           home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with these
           regulations.
               a. No licenses are required.

Criteria For Approval.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is
found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

        E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the
           issuance of a conditional use permit:
         1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a
           zone where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use
           regulations of the zone.
         2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially
           mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.
           These conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction,
           character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation,
           and other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section.
           Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the
           conditional use permit.
         3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional
           use cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable
           conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
           conditional use may be denied.



First Steps Foot Zone                                           App. # USE-167-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   5
         4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining
           whether a conditional use permit application should be approved,
           approved with conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot
           be imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
            a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives
               and requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
            b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
            c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or
               existing development in the vicinity;
            d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
               surrounding area;
            e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the
               surrounding area;
            f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
               transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting,
               screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian
               and vehicular circulation;
            g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
               emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the
               proposed facility or use; and
            h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and
               welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in
               the area.
         5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
           reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this
           subsection E can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their
review of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from
this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and
Public Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their
review of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from
this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division,
if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and



First Steps Foot Zone                                          App. # USE-167-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   6
State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the
Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and approve the
application based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, as listed
within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they
include the following conditions of approval:

        1.      That customer parking shall be limited to the driveway.
        2.      Per DCMC Section 9-5-080(J), unless there is substantial action under
                a conditional use permit within one year from the date of its issuance,
                said permit shall expire and shall have no further force or effect. A
                written request may be submitted to the Community Development
                Department prior to expiration of the conditional use permit for an
                extension of up to six (6) months, subject to approval of the Planning
                Commission, provided substantial action is shown toward establishing
                the conditional use and the requirements for extension under DCMC
                Section 9-5-030 are met.
        3.      That customers shall be limited to no more than 5 per week.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
           alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.
        2. The proposed use is harmonious with the objectives and requirements of
           the city's general plan and this title;
        3. The specific property is appropriate for the proposed use;
        4. The proposed use or facility is unlikely to be injurious to potential or
           existing development in the vicinity;
        5. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
           area is beneficial;
        6. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
           area is negligible;
        7. The utilities, transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space,
           lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and
           pedestrian and vehicular circulation are adequate;
        8. Noxious or offensive emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and
           odor from the proposed facility or use are unlikely; and
        9. The health, safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning
           or leasing property in the area will be unaffected.

The findings for denial as are follows:




First Steps Foot Zone                                           App. # USE-167-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   7
        1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use
           to alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.
        2. The proposed use is not harmonious with the objectives and requirements
           of the city's general plan and this title;
        3. The specific property is inappropriate for the proposed use;
        4. The proposed use or facility is likely to be injurious to potential or existing
           development in the vicinity;
        5. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
           area is negative;
        6. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
           area is negative;
        7. The utilities, transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space,
           lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire protection, and
           pedestrian and vehicular circulation are inadequate;
        8. Noxious or offensive emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and
           odor from the proposed facility or use are likely; and
        9. The health, safety, and welfare of the city, the area, and persons owning
           or leasing property in the area will be negatively affected.

MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the First Steps Foot Zone
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Sara Derrick,
representing First Steps Foot Zone, application USE-167-2022, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September
15, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the First Steps Foot
Zone Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Sara Derrick,
representing First Steps Foot Zone, application USE-167-2022, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September
15, 2022 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the First Steps Foot Zone Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Sara Derrick, representing First
Steps Foot Zone, application USE-167-2022, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 15, 2022.




First Steps Foot Zone                                            App. # USE-167-2022
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request   8
           DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development
Review Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject
for this staff report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be
appropriate for review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.


                         Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                                Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky


  Brien Maxfield
                         DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City,                                             DN: C=US,
                         ou=PW - Engineering,                                                              E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                         email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov, c=US                 Jennifer Jastremsky     O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City,
______________________________
                         Date: 2022.10.05 07:55:17 -06'00'
                                                                                   ______________________________
                                                                                                           CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                           Date: 2022.10.04 11:54:03-06'00'

Draper City Public Works Department                                                Draper City Planning Division



                                                                                    Mike Barker
                         Digitally signed by Don Buckley                                          Digitally signed by Mike Barker

Don Buckley              DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us, O=Draper City

______________________________
                         Fire Department, OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                         Date: 2022.10.04 15:18:44-06'00'
                                                                                                  Date: 2022.10.04 13:33:01
                                                                                   ______________________________
                                                                                                  -06'00'

Draper City Fire Department                                                        Draper City Legal Counsel


                         Digitally signed by Keith Collier


    Keith Collier        DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov, O=Draper

______________________________
                         City, OU=Building Official, CN=Keith Collier
                         Date: 2022.10.05 09:56:50-06'00'



Draper City Building Division




«Project_Name»                                                                                                                             App. #
«JS_File_Number»
«Request_Type» Request                                                         8
                               EXHIBIT A
                          DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE
COMMENTS OR CONDITIONS.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
Fire Division Review.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
                                EXHIBIT F
                         APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE

STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS 9-5-080 E
a)     First Steps Foot Zone will work harmoniously with the neighborhood.
b)     I feel that my home is a suitable place for First Steps Foot Zone to operate.
We have a front room that is separate from the majority of our home and a
bathroom close by.
c)     First Steps Foot Zone will not negatively impact potential or existing
development in the area.
d)     First Steps Foot Zone is a small starting business. I will be accepting clients
via referrals only. The economic impact will benefit my family and the community I
serve.
e)     I will be accepting clients via referrals. I will not be using any signs or
advertisement on my property. I anticipate the aesthetic impact of First Steps Foot
Zone on the neighborhood to be nonexistent. A car in the driveway would be the
biggest impact.
f)     Safeguards provided by First Steps Foot Zone include; parking in the
driveway, front house lights, guest bathroom for customers, a room separated from
the rest of the house, and a home with updated alarms and access to fire
extinguishers. Clients can expect clean towels, hands, tools, and blankets for their
foot zone.
g)     There will be no noxious or offensive emissions from First Steps Foot Zone.
As my business hours are between 8 pm and 10 pm, I will only be seeing one, or at
the most, two clients during that time. There should be no overlap or loud or
boisterous conversations outside the home to disturb the neighborhood.
h)     I hope and anticipate that First Steps Foot Zone will add value and
community to the neighborhood. My focus is in the health and well being of my
clients.


OVERVIEW OF PROPOSED USE
First Steps Foot Zone is a small business focused on the health, wellbeing, and
education of clients. The foot zone is a noninvasive holistic approach to bring the
body back to homeostasis, similar to a foot massage. I will accept clients Tuesday
and Thursday evenings between 8 pm to 10 pm. One to two clients will be booked
per day operating. One client per work day is to be expected. A scheduled foot
zone will last between one hour to an hour and a half. No walk ins will be accepted.
First Steps Foot Zone will be operating inside my home so I feel strongly that the
clients I see will be people that I know or come from referrals. There will be no
signs or postings in front of my house. The front lights will be turned on for
visibility, walkways will be shoveled and salted during winter months, and clients
will park in the driveway. I will be the sole employee. There is no need for site
improvements. My home will remain a home. The set up and take down for a foot
zone includes a client chair, my tools, my chair, and client intake form. I see no
anticipated detrimental effects to the adjacent properties and neighborhood. I will
conclude any discussions inside the home to mitigate noise. I will adhere to the
highest standards of a professional foot zone practitioner.
WORK AREA AND MATERIALS
