MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2022,
IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:             Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha
                     Lowery, Fred Lowry, and Cal Roberts

EXCUSED:             Marsha Vawdrey



STAFF PRESENT:       David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Kellie
                     Challburg, Chief of Staff; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; John Eining,
                     Police Chief; Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager; Bret Millburn,
                     Assistant City Manager; Rhett Ogden, Recreation Director; Laura
                     Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson, Communications Director;
                     Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Jake Sorensen, IT; and Bob Wylie, Finance
                     Director

_____________________________________________________________

Study Session

1.0    Presentation: Parks and Recreation Master Plan Update Survey – Rhett Ogden

1.1    Parks and Recreation Director Rhett Ogden overviewed their current Master Plan,
       which had been completed in 2018. He noted that the Parks and Recreation
       Department had followed the plans as laid out in the document, and completed
       several new parks since the time that the Master Plan had been created. He said
       that he would share with the Council what items the department now wanted to
       focus on, and introduced Kyrene Gibb of Y2 Analytics to go over the results of a
       public opinion survey that they had sent out to Draper residents.

1.2    Ms. Gibb from Y2 Analytics explained that they had sent out a survey to Draper
       residents in November of the previous year, and they had gotten responses from
       over 500 residents. She mentioned that the people who had responded covered a
       broad range of ages, genders, and socioeconomic statuses. She summarized that
       overall, people were very satisfied with the parks in the City, and were very happy
       with the job that the Parks and Recreation department had done. She reported that
       more than half of the respondents had indicated that they utilized the public trails
       and other residential facilities at least once a month, and many of them used them
       at least once a week.

       Ms. Gibb continued to say that the majority of residents had reported that they
       would be willing to pay an additional amount in property taxes to fund the Parks
       and Recreation department. She explained that the average amount that people


Draper City DRAFT City Council Meeting Minutes – January 18, 2022
had indicated that they would be willing to pay had been about $60. She reiterated
that the majority of respondents felt that the existing amenities offered by the Parks
department met their needs and that they were satisfied with the Parks
department. She added that the majority of residents had also indicated that they
were “very or extremely active,” and concluded that the trails and facilities in Draper
were well-used.

Ms. Gibb reported that residents had shown the most interest in the allocation of
funds for the purchase and preservation of open space and other natural areas, the
development of more paved trails, and the development of another dog park in the
City. The Councilmembers briefly discussed that there was already a fairly large dog
park in Draper.

Ms. Gibb then reported that the proximity to home was a large factor in how
residents chose which park to visit. She stated that residents wanted to see
additional pickleball courts, improved outdoor atmosphere, and improvements to
lighting and safety. She elaborated that the “outdoor atmosphere” alluded to the
trees and natural landscaping in the parks.

Ms. Gibb discussed that Draper residents were very divided over the issue of dog
parks, and said that the survey had found that hikers on trails often had issues or
conflicts with dogs that were off-leash on trails. Respondents had suggested that
there be more off-leash areas for dog owners to take their dogs to. Ms. Gibb stated
that although there were already three dog parks in Draper, it might be a good idea
to have more areas designated for dogs, to mitigate conflicts between dog owners
and non-dog owners on the trails.

David Dobbins, City Manager, asked which of the improvements were considered to
be the most important by the survey, and Ms. Gibb explained that the questions
had been “select all that apply” and not ranked, so there was no way to determine
which was considered to be the most important based on the survey, but she
imagined that a new dog park would be fairly high in terms of importance. She
anticipated that another main improvement would be the separation of trails based
on use, with designated hiking, mountain biking, and equestrian trails.

Ms. Gibb said that the majority of residents felt that there was a sufficient number
of arts and cultural events in the City, and she noted that residents would like to see
an indoor running track, an indoor ice rink, and an indoor bouldering or rock-
climbing wall added to their recreation center. She reported that residents were
willing to pay a monthly fee to support those amenities, and commented that she
had found good support across all demographics for an improved recreation center.
She reiterated that the amenities were heavily used by residents, and so they were

                                                                           Page 2 of 7
      willing to pay a premium for them to be improved and expanded upon. She noted
      that none of the respondents had replied that they were not willing to pay any
      amount and that the average amount that a resident would pay was around $50.

      Ms. Gibb overviewed the demographic split of the survey and said that there had
      been a good distribution of age. She said there had been even representation of
      homeowners and non-homeowners.

2.0   Council/Manager Reports

2.1   Councilmember F. Lowry spoke about the Andy Ballard Arena and said that the
      Council had previously discussed the possibility of a Renaissance Fair in June. He
      asked the Council for feedback if they wanted to proceed with that idea, as it would
      soon be time to start making plans for that. He received support from the Council
      and the Parks and Recreation department to continue with preliminary planning.

2.2   Councilmember F. Lowry also discussed the Tree Committee and said that there
      would be three classes in February about Localscapes landscaping, held in the
      Council chambers. He reported that the Tree Committee was also working on plans
      to re-landscape the front of the City Hall building.

2.3   Mr. Ogden added that the Tree Committee would put in a demonstration garden in
      front of the new Parks and Recreation building, and it would showcase drought-
      resistant plants and Localscaping. He said that it would help demonstrate to
      residents what their yards could look like, and educate them about drought-tolerant
      landscaping options.

2.4   Councilmember T. Lowery reported that she had attended the most recent Draper
      Community Foundation meeting, and the foundation was hard at work preparing
      for Draper Days. She also commented that they were looking for bands to play at
      the Summer Concert Series.

2.5   Mayor Troy K. Walker discussed the results of the survey and voiced surprise that
      there had been such a high demand for more paved trails. Councilmember Cal
      Roberts agreed that they needed to keep working on the development of paved
      trails.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that they needed to think about spaces where a
      pickleball court could be added, and suggested that they install a net for pickleball in
      some of the old basketball courts in their parks so that residents could play either
      pickleball or basketball. Mr. Ogden commented that the surfaces of those courts
      were very different, and it might be better to find new areas to create a pickleball
      court.


                                                                                  Page 3 of 7
      Councilmember T. Lowery felt that Draper already had a high number of dog parks
      and did not need another one, but thought that the City should find solutions to the
      conflicts between dog owners and non-dog owners on the trails. She reported that
      she received a lot of complaints about people finding dog poop on trails, and
      suggested that they increase the number of off-leash dog trails to help mitigate the
      issues. She also thought that not many people knew about the large off-leash areas
      that they already had in Draper. The other Councilmembers agreed that they
      needed to publicize the areas that were designated for dogs more.

2.6   Mayor Troy K. Walker spoke about the upcoming Utah League of Cities and Towns
      Meeting, which would be held in St. George in April. He proposed that the Council
      head down a day early, to hold their meeting and prepare for the upcoming year.
      He asked the Councilmembers for feedback on that idea, and there was a short
      discussion about the feasibility of taking an additional day. The consensus was that
      it would be a good idea to go a day early, rather than a day later, as they imagined
      that they would have more energy before the conference.

Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

2.1   Jake Sorensen offered the prayer and Captain Cody Jolley led the Pledge of
      Allegiance.

3.0   Public Comments

3.1   Todd Shoemaker recalled that he had previously asked the Mayor to speak up about
      the preservation of the Wasatch prison and chapel at the last Point of the Mountain
      State Land Authority Board meeting. Mr. Shoemaker said that he wanted the Mayor
      to show the board members that there were residents of Draper who wanted the
      buildings preserved, but reported that Mayor Walker had not discussed that during
      the last Point of the Mountain State Land Authority Board meeting. Mr. Shoemaker
      said that there was a public comment section at each meeting, and he urged
      residents to attend the meeting to give their opinion about the preservation of the
      prison buildings.



      Mr. Shoemaker also said that at the last City Council meeting, there had been a
      change to the ordinance that stated there would no longer be any public comment
      section at commission meetings. He stated that Mr. Dobbins had made this change
      to stop Commission members from being held responsible for things that were out

                                                                               Page 4 of 7
      of their control and were the prerogative of the City Council. Mr. Shoemaker
      thought this change did not make sense and said that there should still be a three-
      minute public comment section at the start of Commission meetings.

3.2   Mary Anderson said that she had seen a petition on the Draper City website to
      become a single district. She said that she had worked for the school district for
      many years, and said that she had many concerns about the change. She wanted to
      know more about the process, and she also wanted to know more about the cost.
      She pointed out that Draper Park Middle School had recently been named one of
      the best in the nation, and she did not think it was a good idea to make a change, as
      she felt it would inhibit the education of the schoolchildren.

4.0   Consent Items

      a.     Resolution #22-03, a Resolution appointing Corina Pace as a member of the
             Draper City Historic Preservation Commission.

4.1   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve the Consent Items.
      Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

4.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, and Roberts
      voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

5.0   Action Item: Ordinances #1521 and #1522, Ordinances of Draper City amending the
      text of the Land Use and Development Code and amending a Master Area Plan per
      the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code relating to
      the Vista 600 West Master Area Plan TSD Subzone Designations Map.

5.1   This Item has been continued to a date uncertain.

6.0   Action Item: Ordinance #1512 and #1513, Ordinances amending the official zoning
      map of Draper City for approximately 1.5 acres of property from RA1 (Residential
      Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) to RM1 (Multi-family residential, up to
      8 dwelling units per acre), and the official land use map of Draper City for
      approximately 1.5 acres of property from Residential low/medium density to
      Residential medium/high density and approving a development agreement, located
      at approximately 13666 South 300 East within Draper City, otherwise known as the
      Concord Lane Zoning Map, Land Use Amendment and Development Agreement.
      (Legislative Action).

6.1   Planning Manager Jennifer Jastremsky said that the applicant had originally
      submitted her proposal in November of last year, and had made changes based on
      comments from the Council. She went over those changes, which included a
      reduction to the number of lots from nine to eight, the addition of requirements in

                                                                                Page 5 of 7
      regards to unit variety and exterior architectural design features, and the
      amendment of setback rules. The applicant had also added language that would
      require a 6,000-foot detention pond for stormwater collection. Ms. Jastremsky
      presented a graph that outlined all of the changes, as well as an updated concept
      plan.

6.2   Councilmember F. Lowry asked where the easement for stormwater collection
      would be, and Ms. Jastremsky explained that the location of the easement would be
      determined based on the Engineering department’s best practices.

6.3   Ron Smith spoke on behalf of the applicant and stated that the decrease in the
      number of units allowed for plenty of space on each lot. He noted that there would
      now be 5.3 units per acre, which would be plenty of open space for each lot.

6.4   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinances #1512 and #1513.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

6.5   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts
      voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0   Action Item: Ordinance #1515, an Ordinance of the Draper City Council
      incorporating minor text amendments and additions to Section 15-4 of the Draper
      City Municipal Code pertaining to Special Events.

7.1   Mr. Ogden went over the ordinance and explained the changes. He said that they
      had made an amendment that stated that a permit was needed to hold a special
      event in Draper, and changed a section that restricted the number of special events
      that could be held in a year. Another change was that an application would no
      longer be considered complete until the fees were received by the City. Mr. Ogden
      explained that the City Risk Manager could require a higher or lower level of
      insurance, based on the risk associated with the event. He also said that language
      had been changed which allowed Draper to deny a permit to an event that had
      been previously held in another district and had not complied with the rules of that
      district. The final change was that only a City-sponsored event could be held on a
      City trail, and Mr. Ogden presented a map that highlighted the areas in which a
      private event would not be allowed.

7.2   Councilmember F. Lowry clarified that no outside events could be held on trails
      within the red section as indicated on the map, and asked about non-profits or
      charities that wanted to hold an event in those areas. Mr. Ogden replied that
      currently, a non-profit would not be allowed to hold events in those areas, but said
      that they could amend the language, or make exceptions in the future. He
      elaborated that there was a legal question if the City could allow non-profits to hold

                                                                                 Page 6 of 7
      events in certain areas, but not-for-profit businesses. City Attorney Mike Barker
      commented that the City could choose to partner with a non-profit that wanted to
      hold an event, and in doing so that would make the City the coordinator of the
      event.

7.3   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinance #1515. Councilmember T.
      Lowery seconded the motion.

7.4   Councilmember F. Lowry wanted to clarify that the Council would review the item
      about non-profits in the restricted area.

7.5   Councilmember T. Lowery commented that she also thought they needed to revisit
      that topic, but thought that they had a good starting point.

7.6   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts
      voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

8.0   Adjournment

8.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember T. Lowery
      seconded the motion.

8.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

8.3   The meeting adjourned at 7:42 p.m.




                                                                              Page 7 of 7
