                              Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, UT 84020
                                       October 3, 2022

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: October 13, 2022

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     Beacon Crest Cottages – Landscape Deviation Request
        Application No.: VAR-185-2022
        Applicant:        David Meredith, representing Beacon Crest of Draper, LLC and
                          Beacon Crest Heritage, LLC.
        Project Location: Approximately 12374, 12382, and 12392 S. 600 E.
        Current Zoning: CC (Community Commercial) Zone
        Acreage:          Approximately 1.55 Acres (Approximately 67,518 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Landscape Deviation for the purpose of
                          a deviating from the requirement to provide a minimum of ten
                          feet (10’) of landscaping around the property perimeter, related
                          to potential future expansion of the Beacon Crest Assisted Living
                          Facility onto an adjacent property.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Landscape Deviation for a 0.46 acre portion
of a combined development site of approximately 1.55 acres located on the north side of
Pioneer Road and West of 600 E., at approximately 12374, 12382, and 12392 S. 600 E.
(Exhibits B & C). The property is currently zoned CC. The applicant is requesting that a
Landscape Deviation from the requirement to provide a minimum of ten feet (10’) of
landscaping around the property perimeter be approved to allow for potential future
expansion of the Beacon Crest Assisted Living Facility onto adjacent property.

The Beacon Crest Assisted Living facility currently consists of two residential assisted living
structures built in approximately 2021 and located across two parcels with street address



Beacon Crest Cottages                                                   App. # VAR-185-2022
Landscape Deviation Request                    1
of 12382 S. 600 E. and 12392 S. 600 E. Both residential structures were approved under a
single Site Plan application and have mailing addresses listed as 557 E. Pioneer Rd. and 591
E. Pioneer Rd. The potential future expansion of the assisted living facility would be directly
to the north of the existing facility primarily on property owned by Beacon Crest Heritage,
LLC.



ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.
 Table 1              General Plan and Zoning Designations                                Exhibit
 Existing Land Use            Residential Medium Density and Residential High             Exhibit D
                              Density
 Current Zoning               CC (Community Commercial)                                   Exhibit E
 Proposed Use                 Assisted Living Facility
 Adjacent Zoning
    East                      RA2 (Residential Agricultural – Min. 20,000 ft2 lot)
                              (across 600 E.)
     West                     CC (Community Commercial)
     North                    CC (Community Commercial)
     South                    R3 (Residential – Min. 13,000 ft2 lot) (across Pioneer
                              Rd.)

The land use designation is characterized as follows:




Beacon Crest Cottages                                                          App. # VAR-185-2022
Landscape Deviation Request                           2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the CC
zone is to “is to provide areas where commercial uses may be established which are generally
oriented toward local residents rather than out of town patrons. Uses typical of this zone include
planned retail and office development.”

Landscaping Modification. DCMC Section 9-23-030 states that development constraints can
vary greatly among sites and therefore the Planning Commission may approve landscaping
plans that deviate from the landscaping requirements of the DCMC based on making
certain required findings in whole. Those findings, according to DCMC Section 9-23-030(B),
are that the deviation:

        1. Is consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan or
           ordinance;
        2. Reflects a design that conforms to the requirements of this chapter to the greatest
           extent possible and offers alternative methods for addressing the landscape
           requirement for which a deviation is being requested. Alternative methods may
           include additional fencing, berming and plant material than what would otherwise be
           required;
        3. Will not adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents;
        4. Will not adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public safety;
        5. Is justified by site constraints; and
        6. Is of high quality and integrates aesthetically with the design of the primary buildings
           on site and established streetscape.



Beacon Crest Cottages                                                     App. # VAR-185-2022
Landscape Deviation Request                      3
The applicant is requesting approval to deviate from the requirement to provide ten feet
(10’) of landscaped area around the perimeter of the property north of the existing assisted
living facility. The applicant is considering submitting an application for approval to
construct five dwelling units for independent senior living cottages, indicating that is would
be part of an expansion of the assisted living facility operations (Exhibit H). The applicant
desires to first obtain approval for the landscape deviation prior to submitting a site plan or
amended site plan application for the subject properties as they believe that the narrow
width of the property reduces the ability to develop the property in a way that is
economically beneficial to their business, and to reduce the risk of expending funds to
create a site plan and construction drawings should a landscape deviation ultimately not be
approved.

The applicant has submitted a conceptual proposal for evaluation as a potential
development scenario as part of this application (Exhibit F). This design scenario is only one
potential scenario for development of the property and other potential development
scenarios will also exist, possibly including scenarios where a smaller deviation, or no
deviation at all from the minimum ten-foot (10’) landscape perimeter requirement would
be required. Although the applicant stated their underlying economic interest in the
proposed concept plan in their deviation request letter (Exhibit H), additional information
or evidence supporting the claim, such as an analysis of other development scenarios, was
not provided.

The concept plan includes an access drive approximately twenty feet (20’) wide, and units
approximately thirty-six feet (36’) deep. If a site plan application was submitted for the
property, independent of the adjacent assisted living facility, ten feet (10’) of perimeter
landscaping would be required on all sides of the property. The total combined width of
the main conceptual plan elements and required perimeter landscaping would be
approximately seventy-six feet (76’). This total width is fourteen and three-quarter feet
(14.75’) wider than the actual property width of sixty-one and one-quarter feet (61.25’). If
instead an amended site plan application was submitted and the property was developed
under a single unified site plan that included the property on which the assisted living
center sits, the ten foot (10’) perimeter between the current property lines would not apply
as the area would be internal to the development plan. Under the amended site plan
scenario the desired concept layout would still be approximately four and three-quarters
feet (4.75’) wider than the available parcel width, however, absent an amended site plan
application, including complete and accurate drawings and dimensions, staff is unable to
determine if the additional width needed might be accommodated on a small amount of
the adjacent property or not. Also notable, is the fact that the submitted concept plan as
drawn already utilizes some of the land area from the existing assisted living facility for
installation of a turnaround for emergency vehicles.




Beacon Crest Cottages                                                  App. # VAR-185-2022
Landscape Deviation Request                   4
Another potential site constraint that could be considered is the change in grade between
the properties. This grade change was created by the developer during the construction of
the existing assisted living facility buildings. During the staff review of this deviation
request, it was discovered that both buildings were constructed slightly larger than what
was initially approved through the planning process (Exhibits C and G), and that significant
changes to site grading were approved around the time the construction of the first
building began in January of 2016. The existing site grading is similar to, but does not
completely follow the approve plans. The resulting changes staff approximates create a
cumulative rise in the grade of five feet (5’) located towards the center of the assisted living
facility property along the northernmost boundary adjacent to the shared property line.
This rise is supported by an existing stone retaining wall, and the grade change tapers out
from the center towards both east and west property lines. A planned and approved
pavilion and connected walking path/trail system were not installed as part of the
approved assisted living facility landscaping, and instead the rise in grade appears to
ultimately have been made to accommodate an expansion of the parking area including an
increase in the parking stall count. Staff was unable to locate a specific approval for this
increase in the parking area. As no site plan or amended site plan application has been
submitted with respect to this deviation request, an analysis of aspects pertaining to
existing grade differentials between properties cannot be accurately evaluated at this time
as the potential for creating a similar rise in grade on the northern property is not able to
be explored, evaluated, or addressed, and ultimately could result in an altered site layout
from that of the included concept plan.

The potential impact of approving the requested deviation to eliminate the requirement for
providing a ten foot (10’) wide landscaped perimeter for future development of the
property would vary depending on the specific proposal and type of application made for
development. The adjacent property to the north of the property for which this deviation
has been sought has an existing large strip mall type building directly abutting on the
property line. This produces the visual effect of a large blank wall as seen from the subject
property. Ten feet (10’) of landscaping adjacent to the wall would not benefit the
neighboring property owner, however vertical landscaping elements adjacent to the wall
could potentially soften the view as seen by the public or current and future residents of
the subject properties. Where parking is shown on the concept plan abutting the northern
line approval of a deviation may permit the creation of parking stalls that allow for vehicles
to overhang into parking stalls on adjacent property. No justification for the deviation to
eliminate the perimeter landscaping on the east or west has been provided, nor is the
justification for the elimination along the south supported as the site could potentially be
developed as unified site under an amended site plan application.

As part of the concept plan the applicant is proposing to include an additional 1.7% of the
property area as landscaped area above the 20% minimum area required by ordinance.
They are also proposing to install a “green park” area and walking paths for use by
residents of both properties. These are similar to features that were proposed and



Beacon Crest Cottages                                                   App. # VAR-185-2022
Landscape Deviation Request                    5
approved by the Planning Commission as part of the current development (Exhibit G) but
which ultimately were not installed. Notably absent from the concept drawing is the
identification of the proposed recreational walking paths mentioned in the request letter.
Staff has included in the suggested conditions for approval that these elements be
specifically required to be include in a future site plan or amended site plan application as
a condition of approval for the deviation.

The provided concept plan has not been evaluated for compliance with other applicable
ordinance provisions at this time, as this application is not for review of a site plan. If a site
plan application is submitted in the future, the actual site design would then be evaluated
for compliance with all applicable ordinances and modifications may be necessary. The
deviation, if approved, would apply strictly to the ordinance requirements of 9-23-090 and
would not give approval to other specific design features or elements shown on the
provided concept plans. Granting of this deviation request does not grant nor imply that
deviations will be granted from other ordinance sections related to a complete site plan or
amendment site plan application that may be made in the future. To ensure that timely
development of the site occurs should the deviation be granted, staff has included a
recommended condition of approval that the deviation approval expire if a site plan (or an
amended site plan) application is not submitted within one year, and is not diligently
pursued to completion. If the deviation is not approved, development of the site would be
required to conform to ordinance requirements in effect at the time a site plan or
amended site plan application is made.



REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Landscape Deviation submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Landscape Deviation submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Landscape Deviation submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Landscape Deviation submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



Beacon Crest Cottages                                                     App. # VAR-185-2022
Landscape Deviation Request                     6
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
       Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site,
       including permitting.
    2. That the applicant submit a site plan or amended site plan application for the
       subject properties within one year of the date of the deviation approval by the
       Planning Commission and diligently pursue the application to completion, or the
       approval of the landscape deviation will be null and void.
    3. That approval of a landscape plan per DCMC Section 9-5-090(D)(1)(d)(4) is required
       to be obtained with the site plan or amended site plan application.
    4. That the proposed on-site recreational amenities of a park and walking path or trail
       system be developed and installed as part of a future site plan or amended site plan
       application as indicated in the applicant’s deviation request letter.
    5. That at a minimum 21.7% of the gross area of the property at approximately 12374
       S 600 E. be provided as landscaped area consistent with other requirements of
       Draper City Municipal Code, and the written proposal provided by the applicant.
    6. That the granted deviation be only from compliance with the ten foot (10’) wide
       portion along the northern property line adjacent to the wall of the existing strip-
       mall building for the purpose of allowing for potential vehicular access to abut the
       property line.



The findings for approval as are follows:

    1. The proposed landscape plan is consistent with the purpose of chapter 23 of the
       Draper City Municipal Code and any applicable master plan or ordinance;
    2. The proposed landscape plan reflects a design that conforms to the requirements of
       chapter 23 of the Draper City Municipal Code to the greatest extent possible and
       offers alternative methods for addressing the landscape requirement for which a
       deviation is being requested.
    3. The proposed landscape plan will not adversely affect neighboring property owners
       or residents;
    4. The proposed landscape plan will not adversely affect sight distance or otherwise
       diminish public safety;



Beacon Crest Cottages                                               App. # VAR-185-2022
Landscape Deviation Request                  7
    5. The proposed landscape deviation is justified by site constraints; and
    6. The proposed landscape plan is of high quality and integrates aesthetically with the
       design of the primary buildings on site and established streetscape.

The findings for denial as are follows:

    1. The proposed landscape plan is not consistent with the purpose of chapter 23 of the
       Draper City Municipal Code and any applicable master plan or ordinance;
    2. The proposed landscape plan does not reflect a design that conforms to the
       requirements of chapter 23 of the Draper City Municipal Code to the greatest extent
       possible and/and or does not offer alternative methods for addressing the
       landscape requirement for which the deviation is being requested.
    3. The proposed landscape plan will adversely affect neighboring property owners or
       residents;
    4. The proposed landscape plan will adversely affect sight distance or otherwise
       diminish public safety;
    5. The proposed landscape deviation is not justified by site constraints; and
    6. The proposed landscape plan is not of high quality and does not integrate
       aesthetically with the design of the primary buildings on site and established
       streetscape.



MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Landscape Deviation, as
requested by David Meredith, representing Beacon Crest of Draper, LLC and Beacon Crest
Heritage, LLC from perimeter landscaping, application VAR-185-2022, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated October 3, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Landscape Deviation, as
requested by David Meredith, representing Beacon Crest of Draper, LLC and Beacon Crest
Heritage, LLC from perimeter landscaping, application VAR-185-2022, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated October 3, 2022, and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Landscape Deviation, as requested by
David Meredith, representing Beacon Crest of Draper, LLC and Beacon Crest Heritage, LLC
from perimeter landscaping, application VAR-185-2022, based on the findings and subject
to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated October 3, 2022.




Beacon Crest Cottages                                                App. # VAR-185-2022
Landscape Deviation Request                   8
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. General Items

       a. Engineering recommends the applicant consider the grade differential from the
          existing site to the proposed expansion site. This differential will impact the
          overall design of the proposed site. This will be addressed during the site plan
          process.

       b. The provided information by the applicant was not required to address any onsite
          drainage or retention. Storm runoff may impact the proposed site design and will
          need to be addressed during the site plan process. Due to the existing grade of
          this site, all storm water runoff will be retained onsite or potentially cross adjacent
          private property to connect to the public storm drainage system, which would
          require the adjacent owner’s written permission.

       c. The applicant is showing single-car garages as part of the conceptual layout
          included in the deviation request. With a twenty-foot access road, the turning
          radius into the garages will need to be evaluated during the site plan process to
          ensure vehicle access to the garage parking.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No comments provided.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      No comments provided.
  EXHIBIT B
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
                 EXHIBIT F
CONCEPT LAYOUT AND LANDSCAPING CALCULATION
                                                                                      NORTH
                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                 A100
                                                                                            SCALE: 1/16" = 1' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STAIRWAY




                                                                                                                     ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GREEN PARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RETAINING WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12374 SOUTH 600 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       600 EAST STREET




The drawings, designs, ideas, arrangements and plans indicated or represented are the sole property of Layton Davis Architects and are subject to the copyright of Layton Davis Architects or its assigns. They were created, evolved and developed for use on, and in conjunction with the specified project. Any use of the drawings, designs, materials or information contained herein, including but not limited to copying or reproduction, which is not expressly authorized by Layton Davis Architects, is strictly prohibited as an infringement of its copyright and may result in liability




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BEACON CREST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COTTAGES
                                                                           CWL

                                                  TITLE
                                                                                                                                    20.120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            08.24.2022




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2005 East 2700 South suite 200
                                               SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                  PROJECT NO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                CHRONOLOGY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRINTED DATE




     A001




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   salt lake city, utah 84109
                       24X36 SHEET #
                                                                                 DWN BY/ CHK BY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       p:801.487.0715 www.laytondavisarchitects.com
                                             ARCHITECTURAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Draper, UTAH
         EXHIBIT G
CURRENT APPROVED SITE PLAN
                       CALL BLUESTAKES
               R       @ 811 AT LEAST 48 HOURS
                       PRIOR TO THE
                       COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
Know what's
                       CONSTRUCTION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EAST QUARTER CORNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SECTION 30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T3S, RIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AREA CALCULATIONS TABLE                                                                        SALT LAKE CITY
              BENCHMARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SLB&M                         DESCRIPTION           AREA           PERCENTAGE                                                     45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (FOUND BRASS CAP)                                                                                                                            Sandy, UT 84070
EAST QUARTER CORNER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PAVEMENT            15,490 s.q. f.t.          32%
SECTION 30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Phone: 801.255.0529
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BUILDING
T3S, RIE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15,920 s.q. f.t.          33%                                                        Fax: 801.255.4449
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (FOOTPRINT)
SLB&M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LANDSCAPING         16,930 s.q. f.t.          35%

ELEVATION = 4468.89'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       48,340 s.q. f.t.                                                                     LAYTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOTAL SITE                                    100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.110 acres                                                                          Phone: 801.547.1100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Phone: 435.843.3590
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARKING CALCULATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARKING REQUIRED 1 SPACE PER 2 RESIDENTIAL UNITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CEDAR CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   32 UNITS / 2 = 16 STALLS                                                                                     Phone: 435.865.1453
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   16 STALLS REQUIRED                                                                                           RICHFIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   18 STALLS PROVIDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Phone: 435.590.0187
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WWW.ENSIGNENG.COM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SCOPE OF WORK:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROVIDE, INSTALL AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR REFERENCED, THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DETAILS NOTED, AND/OR AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:                                              FOR:


                                                                                                                                                                6                                                                                                                                                                                                     7             2                                                                                                                         ASPHALT PAVEMENT: THICK ASPHALTIC CONCRETE WITH          UNTREATED BASE COURSE PER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GEOTECHNICAL REPORT.
                                                                                                                       19                                                                                                                                                               EXIST. CARPORT
                                                                                 18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18
                                                                        X                 X                        X                          X                X                          X                 WEST      X   333.08'                        X                          X                  X                               X                    X                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONCRETE PAVEMENT:        THICK CONCRETE WITH     UNTREATED BASE COURSE PER GEOTECHNICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONTACT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REPORT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.0'
                                                         3                                                                                           18                                                                                                                                 18         3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PHONE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    15.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3



                                                                                                      15.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FAX:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1647.38'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4     NOT USED
                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROPOSED




                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                      4.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24.0'
                                                                                                                                                   3.0'                                                                                                                                                  4.0'                                                                                                                                                                                           5     ON-SITE HANDICAP ACCESS RAMP PER DETAIL13/C-601.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              PAVILION                                                                                     3.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            19                                       18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6     6' VINYL FENCE. SEE ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14
                                                                 3.0'                                                                                                                                  12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          87.25'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TRASH ENCLOSURE PER DETAILS 10 AND 11/C-601 WITH 6" THICK CONCRETE APRON WITH #4 REBAR @ 24"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.4'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                                                                                           5




                                                                                                                                                                                                              8.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8     4" WIDE SOLID WHITE PAVEMENT MARKING PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.
                                                 18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NORTH
                                                                                                                   100.5'                                                                                                                                                                                                              100.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9     PAINTED ADA SYMBOL AND ASSOCIATED HATCHING PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                              8.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10     "HANDICAP PARKING" SIGN PER PER DETAIL 9/C-601.
                                                                                                                                                                                              9                                                          10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            600 EAST STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11     PAINTED LANE-USE ARROWS PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (PUBLIC STREET)
                                                                                              91.7'




                                                                                                              PROPOSED BLDG. "A"                                                                                                                                                                             PROPOSED BLDG. "B"                                                                                                                                                                        12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      61.0'
                                                                                                               6,497 Sq. Ft. (FOOTPRINT)                                                      15                                                         15                                                       6,497 Sq. Ft. (FOOTPRINT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13                                        PER DETAIL12/C-601.
                                                         13.9'           10.5'                                           94.5'                                             11.5'   6.0'       18.0'                    24.0'                          18.0'         6.0'    11.5'                                                94.5'                                             10.5'     13.8'                 23.1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14     CONCRETE STAIRS AND HANDRAIL PER DETAIL 6 AND 7/C-601.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18




                                                                                                                                                                                                             TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15     MONOLITHIC FACE SIDEWALK PER DETAIL 8/C-601.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  18




                                                                                                                                                                                                             9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         19                                                                                                                         EAST
                                                                                                                                                          19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.35'                                                                              16     INTERNAL SIGN INDICATING ENTRANCE ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                              12                          8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17     EXTERNAL SIGN INDICATING EXIT ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WINDOW WELL. SEE ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18
                                                                                                                                                           5.2' 5.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                          R=28.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R=28.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GUARD RAIL. SEE ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20.8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       19

                                                                        4.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CO

                                                                                                                                                  24.0'                    15
                                                                                                                                                               9.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                                                                                                                                          4.0'
                                                                                                                                                   TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CO            15
                                                                                                                                     12
                                                                                              38.7'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12                                                  3
                                                                                      14                                                                                                                              20.0'
                                                                                                                                                                   20.0'




                                                                                                                             11                                                                                                                 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12                                                        11
                                                                                      3                                                              17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10.8'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.2'
                                                                                                                             30.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               31.0'
                                                 5.77'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      29.3'




                                                                                                                                          4                                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12.84'                     R=11.69'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L=6.15'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PIONEER ROAD (12400 S)                                                                                  C=6.08'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (PUBLIC STREET)
                                                                                                                  DRAPER GROVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1009.66'
                                                                                                                  COURT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SOUTHEAST CORNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SECTION 30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T3S, RIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SLB&M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (FOUND BRASS CAP)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT NUMBER    PRINT DATE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAWN BY          CHECKED BY



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT MANAGER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HORZ: 1 inch =   ft.
       EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT REQUEST LETTER
