Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: January 13, 2022
Re: Reynolds Home – Zoning Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 1.43 acres located on the north side of Richins Rd. (12700 South), at approximately 1595 East 12700 South. The property is currently zoned R A2 . The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved for the purpose of rezoning the properties from the RA2 zone to the R4 zone. The findings are as follows: The findings for positive recommendation are as follows:
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
a.   Advance the preservation and revitalization of Draper’s mature neighborhoods to ensure a healthy, safe, and attractive place to call home.
2.    The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
Th e findings for negative recommendation are as follows:
1.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
a.   The Residential Low/Medium Density designation promotes a density range of up to 2 dwelling units per acre.
2.   The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 1/6/2022 Cover Memo