Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: February 10, 2022
Re: Airborne-Alcatraz Rezone Comments: This application is a request for approval of a zoning map amendment for approximately 2.85 acres located at approximately 12674 S. Pony Express Drive.  The property is currently zoned CR.  The applicant is requesting to rezone the property to CG.  There is no development and no proposed changes of users at this time.
An application for a site plan and conditional use permit for the building on the subject property was approved by the Planning Commission in 1999 for a business called Tropical Snow.  In 1999, the property was zoned C-3 and buildings with both office and warehouse space required a conditional use permit at that time.  That conditional use permit was approved with a condition that no more than 10% of the buildings are utilized for office space.  In January of 2000, the Planning Commission modified the percentage that could be utilized for office up to 18%.  In mid-2010, the conditional use permit was modified to allow for the current use of ‘recreation and entertainment, indoor’ for the subject property.  That approval allowed up to 130 patrons at any one time to address a potential parking issue.  Finally, in late 2016, a minor site plan was approved to develop an additional parking lot for the business to the west (across the canal) within the Rocky Mountain power corridor.  With the addition of this parking area, the site currently complies with parking. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.  Map Amendments:
a.  The amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
b.  The amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
c.  The amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
d.  The proposed amendment may not adversely affect adjacent property;  and
e.  Adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection are in place.
For denial:
1.  Map Amendments:
a.  The amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
b.  The amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
c.  The amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
d. The proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent property; and
e. Adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection may not be in place. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 2/1/2022 Backup Material