                                      EXHIBIT A



1-1-030: CITY SEAL:

   A. The corporate seal of Draper City, established and declared to be the seal of
      the city, is circular in form with the words "City of Draper, State of Utah"
      inscribed in an outer circle, and the words "Corporate Seal 1978" inscribed in
      the center.
   B. The city recorder shall be the custodian of the official seal of the city, and is
      authorized to use the city seal on any ordinance, resolution, honoraria,
      certificate, or any other instrument necessary to authenticate official city
      documents or to indicate institutional sanction for official, legal and
      ceremonial purposes.
   C. The city seal shall only be used for the official business of Draper City.
   D. Draper City may amend the city seal as necessary.
   E. Figure 1.1.030 is a facsimile of the city seal.

1-1-040: CITY LOGO:

   A. The official city logo of Draper City shall include mountain peaks with the
      stylized words “DRAPER” and “UTAH” as demonstrated in Figure 1.1.040.
   B. Additional official styles of the city logo are represented in Figures 1.1.041,
      1.1.042, 1.1.043, and 1.1.044.
   C. Draper City may amend and adopt different stylized versions of the city logo
      and additional city logos as necessary.
   D. The Draper City communications director shall be the custodian of the city
      logo.

1-1-050: OTHER CITY INSIGNIA:

   A. City insignia means any other official visual representations of Draper City,
      including the city flag, photographs on the city website, and other such visual
      representations that the city may adopt.
   B. The Draper City communications director shall be the custodian of all other
      city insignia.

1-1-060: UNAUTHORIZED USE:

   A. It is unlawful for any person or entity to make use of the city seal, the city
      logo, or city insignia, or any portion, facsimile, mock-up, or reproduction
      thereof, or to make or use of any design, symbol, emblem, or similar device
              that is an imitation of the city seal, city logo, or city insignia that is designed
              or likely to confuse, deceive, or mislead the public.
           B. It is unlawful for any person or entity to make use of the city seal, the city
              logo, or other city insignia without the express, written permission of the
              proper custodian.
           C. Unauthorized use of the city seal, the city logo, or other city insignia is a Class
              B misdemeanor.




                                            Figure 1.1.030




                                            Figure 1.1.040




Figure 1.1.041            Figure 1.1.042               Figure 1.1.043             Figure 1.1.044
ONE-COLOR                                               WHITE                     WITHOUT UTAH
                           GRAYSCALE
Use as an alternative                                                             Use when the
                           Use a three-tint grayscale   Use as an alternative
option. For apparel, the                                                          application is too small
                           as an alternative option     option when placing the
color can change to                                                               (e.g. small embroidery
                           for any application.         logo on a dark or
match the color of the                                                            patch, badge reel, etc.)
                                                        colored background.
apparel.
