                          Development Review Committee
                               1020 East Pioneer Road
                                 Draper, Utah 84020


                                       STAFF REPORT
                                       October 17, 2022

To:            Draper City Planning Commission
               Business Date: October 27, 2022

From:          Development Review Committee

Prepared By:          Jonathan Concidine, Planner
                      Planning Division
                      Community Development Department
                      801-576-6522, j.concidine@draperutah.gov

Re: Royale Estate & Cottages – Development Agreement, Land Use Map
  Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment Requests
    Application No.: DA-156-2022, TEXTMAP-153-2022, TEXTMAP-155-2022
    Applicant:        Bruce Bastian, representing J. B. Earl Company
    Project Location: Approximately 12430 S. 700 E.
    Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 sq. ft. min. lot size)
                      and RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 sq. ft. min. lot
                      size) Zone
    Acreage:          1.65 Acres (Approximately 72,000 ft2)
    Request:          Request for approval of a Development Agreement, Land
                      Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment in the
                      RA1 and RA2 zones regarding the proposed development of
                      an assisted living facility and three new single family homes.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Development Agreement, Land Use
Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 1.65 acres
located on the west side of 700 East, at approximately 12430 S. 700 E. (Exhibit C &
D). The property is currently zoned RA1 and RA2. The applicant is requesting that a
Development Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment
be approved to allow for the development of the site as a new assisted living facility
and three new single family homes (Exhibit G). The applications as proposed would
change the land use map on part of the site from Residential Medium Density to
Neighborhood Commercial and keep the remainder as Residential Medium Density
(Exhibit H). The applicant also wishes to change the zoning map from RA1 and RA2



Royale Estate & Cottages                                                App. # DA-156-2022
Development Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment
Request                                          1
to R4 (Single Family Residential, 10,000 sq. ft. min. lot size) and CN (Neighborhood
Commercial) (Exhibit I).

The existing properties are part of the Draperville subdivision. There are three
single family homes currently existing on the site, which were built in 1887, 1941
and 1941. The subdivision was originally recorded in 1873.

ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning.
 Table 1           General Plan and Zoning Designations                              Exhibit
 Current Land Use Residential Medium Density                                         Exhibit E
 Current Zoning    RA1 and RA2                                                       Exhibit F
 Proposed Use      Assisted Living Facility and Single Family Homes
 Adjacent Zoning
    East           RA2
    West           RA1, R4 (Single Family Residential, 10,000 sq. ft.
                   min. lot size)
    North          RA1, CN (Neighborhood Commercial)
    South          RA2

The Residential Medium Density land use designation is characterized as follows:




Royale Estate & Cottages                                                App. # DA-156-2022
Development Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment
Request                                          2
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of
the RA1 and RA2 zones are to “foster low density development with little impact on
its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
City’s semi-rural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-
lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The
predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings,
protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”

Analysis
The Royale Estate & Cottages project is envisioned by the applicant as the future
site of an innovative type of assisted living. The applicant believes that their unique
design can be a model for a new kind of assisted living arrangement. The applicant
also wishes to complement the assisted living facility (which will provide 30
residential units within its walls) with three single family homes adjacent.

The site is located near the Beehive Homes of Draper and Beacon Crest assisted
living complexes, although the development agreement for Royale Estate &
Cottages requires residential architecture and locks in a concept plan requiring a
mansion-scale building rather than dorm-style halls.

The Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments would change the current maps to
allow the assisted living facility to be built on the south end of the site, while the
north end would be changed to allow the construction of three single family homes.
The proposed land use for the assisted living facility is Neighborhood Commercial.
The Neighborhood Commercial land use designation is characterized as follows:




Royale Estate & Cottages                                                App. # DA-156-2022
Development Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment
Request                                          3
The proposed zoning designation for the assisted living facility is CN. Per DCMC
Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the CN zone is to “provide areas where
convenience buying outlets, having small trade areas, may be established to serve
surrounding residential neighborhoods. This zone is intended to promote a
combination of retail and service facilities which, in character and scale, meet day
to day needs of nearby residents.”

The proposed zoning designation for the single-family homes is R4. According to
DCMC Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the R4 zone is to “permit medium to
medium-high density residential developments with single-family homes. These
zones are intended to foster thriving and well maintained neighborhoods that allow
upscale single-family homes on smaller lots that require less maintenance and
provide a balanced lifestyle.”

The assisted living facility and single family homes would share a private road. The
single family homes’ yards will be common space and the unit lots will be the
footprint of the home only. As this is not comprehended by the R4 zone, the
development agreement includes this language.

The development agreement specifies that the assisted living facility will provide 29
units for residents and 1 unit for nightly guest rentals (i.e., for visiting family
members). The agreement also clarifies that both the City and the applicant intend
for the project to be built according to the proposed master plan (Exhibit G),
subject to minor adjustments required during the final plat approval process. In
addition, residential architecture will be required for the development, and the
single family residences will have common areas rather than each lot having the
10,000 sq. ft. minimum area required under R4 zoning.


Criteria For Approval.
Zoning Map Amendment 9-5-060(E)
A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a
recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the
following factors in Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

       1. Map Amendments:
           a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives
              and policies of the city's general plan;
           b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall
              character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject
              property;
           c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of
              any applicable overlay zone;
           d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect
              adjacent property; and
           e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
              property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation



Royale Estate & Cottages                                                App. # DA-156-2022
Development Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment
Request                                          4
               facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage
               systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.

Land Use Map Amendments
The Land Use Map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F)
because the Land Use Map is part of Draper City’s General Plan. That section lists
the following criteria for a General Plan amendment as:

       Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah
       Code Annotated 10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's
       legislative body, shall follow the procedures as outlined in Draper City
       Municipal Code 9-5-060(D).” That section is noted as follows:

       D.      Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and
               processed as provided in this subsection:
               1.    A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the
                     zoning administrator in a form established by the administrator
                     along with any fee established by the city’s schedule of fees.
                     The application shall include at least the following information:
                     a.     The name, address and telephone number of the
                            applicant and the applicant’s agent, if any.
                     b.     The name and address of every person or company the
                            applicant represents.
                     c.     The requested amendment and reasons supporting the
                            request.
                     d.     If the proposed amendment requires a change in the
                            zoning map, the application shall include:
                            (1)    An accurate property map showing present and
                                   proposed zoning classifications;
                            (2)    All abutting properties showing present zoning
                                   classifications; and
                            (3)    An accurate legal description and an approximate
                                   common address of the area proposed to be
                                   rezoned.
                     e.     If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text
                            of this title, the application shall include chapter and
                            section references and a draft of the proposed text.
               2.    After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
                     administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the
                     application.
               3.    The planning commission shall schedule and hold a public
                     hearing on the application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and
                     9-5-045 of this chapter. Following the public meeting, the
                     planning commission shall recommend approval, approval with
                     modifications, or denial of the proposed amendment and shall
                     submit its recommendation to the city council for review and
                     decision.




Royale Estate & Cottages                                                App. # DA-156-2022
Development Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment
Request                                          5
               4.     The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                      application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this
                      chapter. Following the public hearing, the city council may
                      approve, approve with modifications, or deny the proposed
                      amendment.

Development Agreements
DCMC does not contain criteria for review and potential approval of a Development
Agreement. It does, however; contain a list of items that are required as part of an
Agreement and limitations to a Development Agreement, as found in DCMC Section
9-5-200(C) and (D). This section depicts the required materials for such requests
as:

       C.     Procedure: All development agreements, upon proper execution, shall
              be recorded with the respective County Recorder's Office, shall run with
              the land, and shall be binding on all successors in the ownership of the
              affected property. A development agreement shall contain, at a
              minimum, the following:
               1. A legal description of the land subject to the development
                  agreement.
               2. The restrictions or conditions to be attached to the property
                  including development standards and the provision of public
                  facilities.
               3. The configuration of the project as shown on a project master plan.
               4. A statement of the benefits and value the development agreement
                  will have for the City as a whole, including, but not limited to,
                  assurances of design standards, dedication and improvement of
                  open space, parks, trails, amenities, or infrastructure such as public
                  rights-of-way or utilities.
               5. The time frames for performance by the parties.
               6. A description of the various City approvals required before the
                  commencement of construction and other procedures that will be
                  required after approval of the development agreement.
               7. Provisions for enforcement of the terms and conditions of the
                  development agreement.
               8. Provisions for making amendments to the development agreement.
               9. The time limitation of the agreement.
               10. Such other terms as may be proposed and agreed to between the
                  City and developer or subdivider.
       D.   Limitations:
               1. A development agreement under this section may not:
                  a. Limit the City’s authority in the future to:
                      i. Enact a land use regulation; or
                      ii. Take any action allowed under Utah Code Annotated
                           Section 10-8-84, as amended;
                  b. Require the City to change the zoning designation of an area of
                      land within the City in the future; or




Royale Estate & Cottages                                                App. # DA-156-2022
Development Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment
Request                                          6
                   c.Contain a term that conflicts with, or is different from, a
                    standard set forth in an existing land use regulation that
                    governs the area subject to the development agreement, unless
                    the city council approves the development agreement in
                    accordance with the same procedures for enacting a land use
                    regulation under Utah Code Annotated Section 10-9a-502,
                    including a review and recommendation from the planning
                    commission and a public hearing.
               2. The City may not require a development agreement as the only
                 option for developing land within the City.
               3. To the extent that a development agreement does not specifically
                 address a matter or concern related to land use or development,
                 the matter or concern is governed by;
                 a. Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-530, as amended; and
                 b. Applicable land use regulations of this Title.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their
review of the Development Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and
Public Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Development
Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their
review of the Development Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Development Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the
Development Agreement submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and
State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION



Royale Estate & Cottages                                                App. # DA-156-2022
Development Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment
Request                                          7
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria
for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval are as follows:

        1.      The development agreement meets the standards related to procedure
                and limitations for development agreements.
        2.      The terms of the development agreement are acceptable to Draper
                City.
        3.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives and
                policies of the city's general plan.
        4.      The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
                existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
        5.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
                applicable overlay zone;
        6.      The proposed amendment should not adversely affect adjacent
                property.
        7.      The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
                including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
                police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
                water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are adequate.
        8.      The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Sections
                9-2-020(F) and 9-5-060(D).

The findings for denial are as follows:

   1.        The development agreement does not meet the standards related to
             procedure and limitations for development agreements.
   2.        The terms of the development agreement are not acceptable to Draper
             City.
   3.        The proposed amendment is not consistent with the goals, objectives and
             policies of the city's general plan.
   4.        The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
             existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
   5.        The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any
             applicable overlay zone;
   6.        The proposed amendment is likely to adversely affect adjacent property.
   7.        The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
             including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities,
             police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water
             supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are inadequate.
   8.        The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC
             Sections 9-2-020(F) and 9-5-060(D).


MODEL MOTIONS



Royale Estate & Cottages                                                App. # DA-156-2022
Development Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment
Request                                          8
Development Agreement
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Royale Estate & Cottages Development Agreement, as
requested by Bruce Bastian, representing J. B. Earl Company, application DA-156-
2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated October 17, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Royale Estate & Cottages Development
Agreement, as requested by Bruce Bastian, representing J. B. Earl Company,
application DA-156-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated October 17, 2022 and as modified by the findings and
conditions below:

       1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to
the City Council for the Royale Estate & Cottages Development Agreement, as
requested by Bruce Bastian, representing J. B. Earl Company, application DA-156-
2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated October 17, 2022.

Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Bruce
Bastian, representing J. B. Earl Company, applications TEXTMAP-153-2022, and
TEXTMAP-155-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in
the Staff Report dated October 17, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Royale Estate & Cottages Land Use Map
Amendment, as requested by Bruce Bastian, representing J. B. Earl Company,
application TEXTMAP-153-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated October 17, 2022 and as modified by the findings
and conditions below:

       1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to
the City Council for the Royale Estate & Cottages Land Use Map Amendment, as
requested by Bruce Bastian, representing J. B. Earl Company, applications
TEXTMAP-153-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in
the Staff Report dated October 17, 2022.

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Royale Estate & Cottages Zoning Map Amendment, as



Royale Estate & Cottages                                                App. # DA-156-2022
Development Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment
Request                                          9
requested by Bruce Bastian, representing J. B. Earl Company, application TEXTMAP-
155-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated October 17, 2022.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the Royale Estate & Cottages Zoning Map
Amendment, as requested by Bruce Bastian, representing J. B. Earl Company,
application TEXTMAP-155-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated October 17, 2022 and as modified by the findings
and conditions below:

       1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to
the City Council for the Royale Estate & Cottages Zoning Map Amendment, as
requested by Bruce Bastian, representing J. B. Earl Company, application TEXTMAP-
155-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated October 17, 2022.




Royale Estate & Cottages                                                App. # DA-156-2022
Development Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment
Request                                          10
                                EXHIBIT A
                           DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE
COMMENTS OR CONDITIONS.

No outstanding comments.
                                        EXHIBIT B
                                    LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Property is known by the street addresses of:
Parcel 1: 12430 S 700 East, Draper, UT 84020
Parcel 2: 12442 S 700 East, Draper, UT 84020
Parcel 3: 12450 S 700 East, Draper, UT 84020

The Land is described as follows:

Real property in the County of Salt Lake, State of UT, described as follows:

COMMENCING AT THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF SECTION 29, TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH,
RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, AND FROM WHICH THE WEST
QUARTER CORNER OF SAID SECTION 29 BEARS N00°06’00”E; THENCE N45°41’48”E
410.19 FEET TO A BRASS CAP MARKING THE MONUMENT LINE OF 700 EAST (THE
BASIS OF BEARING) 290.74 FEET AND WEST 41.25 FEET TO THE WEST RIGHT OF
WAY OF 700 EAST, THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF PARCEL 28-29-351-012 AS
DESCRIBED IN WARRENTY DEED RECORDING AS ENTRY NO. 12120267 OF THE
OFFICIAL RECORDS AND THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

THENCE COINCIDENT TO SAID PARCEL S88°12’38”W 57.97 FEET; THENCE
S89°12’00”W 148.82 FEET TO A FOUND 5/8” REBAR AND CAP LS#5251295, MARKING
A SOUTHEAST CORNER OF THE 6TH STREET COTTAGES SUBDIVISION; THENCE
THE FOLLOWING TWO COURSES AND DISTANCES ALONG SAID SUBDIVISION; (1)
NORTH 75.20 FEET TO A FOUND 5/8” REBAR AND CAP LS#5251295; (2) THENCE
S89°12’00”W 107.76 FEET TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF PARCEL 28-30-478-007,
DESCRIBED IN A SPECIAL WARRENTY DEED RECORDED AS ENTRY NO. 11509275
OF THE OFFICIAL RECORDS; THENCE N00°39’00”W 181.67 FEET COINCIDENT TO
THE EAST LINE OF SAID PARCEL; THENCE S89°30’00”E 129.82 FEET; THENCE
NORTH 6.86 FEET; THENCE S89°30’00”E 185.85 FEET TO THE WEST RIGHT OF WAY
OF 700 EAST; THENCE S00°12’04”E 255.57 ALONG SAID RIGHT OF WAY TO THE
POINT OF BEGINNING.
  EXHIBIT C
VICINITY MAP
 EXHIBIT D
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT E
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT F
ZONING MAP
    EXHIBIT G
PROPOSED SITE PLAN
                          Exhibit “B”
                          Master Plan




27 October 2022   Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022   Page 30 of 31
      EXHIBIT H
PROPOSED LAND USE MAP
Requested Land Use Designation
 • Medium Density – Three Single family home lots to be situated on shared 30k+ of open
   green space.
 • Neighborhood Commercial – Single 1-acre lot for construction and operation of a senior
   mansion home. This mansion will provide residents the full residential comforts they knew
   before they required assisted care.

                                 Current Land Use                                       Requested Land Use



                                  Pioneer Rd.




                                                700 E



                                                        CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
   EXHIBIT I
PROPOSED ZONING
Requested Zoning Designation
 • R4 – Three Single family home lots to be situated on shared 30k+ of open green space.
 • CN – Single 1-acre lot for construction and operation of a senior mansion home. This
   mansion will provide residents the full residential comforts they knew before they required
   assisted care.




                                                Requested Zoning
  Current Zoning




                                                                   CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
       EXHIBIT J
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                  MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                               FOR
                    ROYALE ESTATE & COTTAGES




                            October xx, 2022




27 October 2022         Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022   Page 1 of 31
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:



Draper City Recorder
Attn: Laura Oscarson
1020 E Pioneer Rd
Draper, UT 84020

                      MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                   FOR
Royale Estate & Cottages

          THIS MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT is made and entered into as of the ___

day of September, 2022, by and between Draper City, a Utah municipality and Royale Senior

Estates Holding, LLC a limited liability company, incorporated in the state of Utah.

                                             RECITALS

          A. The capitalized terms used in this MDA and in these Recitals are defined in Section

1.2, below.

          B. Master Developer is under contract to purchase and is developing the Property.

          C. Master Developer and the City desire that the Property be developed in a unified and

consistent fashion pursuant to the Master Plan.

          D. The Parties acknowledge that development of the Property pursuant to this MDA will

result in significant planning and economic benefits to the City and its residents by, among other

things requiring orderly development of the Property as an assisted-living mansion and three

single-family homes known as Royale Estate & Cottages, beautification of the site resulting from

improved landscaping and new buildings, creating more homelike and residential options for

Draper’s senior residents seeking housing with assisted living care, and increasing property tax

and other revenues to the City based on improvements to be constructed on the Property.

          E. The Parties desire to enter into this MDA to specify the rights and responsibilities of
27 October 2022                       Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                    Page 2 of 31
the Master Developer to develop the Property as expressed in this MDA and the rights and

responsibilities of the City to allow and regulate such development pursuant to the requirements

of this MDA.

          F. The Parties understand and intend that this MDA is a “development agreement” within

the meaning of, and entered into pursuant to the terms of Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-101 (2022) et

seq.

          G. On _______________, 2022, the City zoned the Property CN (Neighborhood

Commercial) and R4 (Single Family Residential).

          H. This MDA conforms to the intent of the City’s General Plan and the Zoning.

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and

other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby

acknowledged, the City and Master Developer hereby agree to the following:

                                                     TERMS

     1. Incorporation of Recitals and Exhibits/ Definitions.

          1.1. Incorporation. The foregoing Recitals and Exhibits “A” - “C” are hereby

          incorporated into this MDA.

          1.2. Definitions. As used in this MDA, the words and phrases specified below shall have

          the following meanings:

                  1.2.1. Act means the Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Utah Code Ann.

                  § 10-9a-101 (2022), et seq.

                  1.2.2. Administrator means the person designated by the City as the Administrator

                  of this MDA.

                  1.2.3. Applicant means a person or entity submitting a Development Application.

27 October 2022                            Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                 Page 3 of 31
                  1.2.4. Buildout means the completion of all of the development on the entire Project

                  in accordance with the approved plans.

                  1.2.5. City means Draper City, a Utah municipality.

                  1.2.6. City Consultants means those outside consultants employed by the City in

                  various specialized disciplines such as traffic, hydrology or drainage for reviewing

                  certain aspects of the development of the Project.

                  1.2.7. City’s Future Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards, and procedures

                  which may be in effect as of a particular time in the future when a Development

                  Application is submitted for a part of the Project and which may or may not be

                  applicable to the Development Application depending upon the provisions of this

                  MDA.

                  1.2.8. City’s Vested Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards and procedures

                  of the City in effect as of the date of this MDA, a digital copy of which is attached as

                  Exhibit “C”.

                  1.2.9. Council means the elected City Council of the City.

                  1.2.10. Default means a material breach of this MDA as specified herein.

                  1.2.11. Denied means a formal denial issued by the final decision-making body of the

                  City for a particular type of Development Application but does not include review

                  comments or “redlines” by City staff.

                  1.2.12. Development means the development of a portion of the Property pursuant to

                  an approved Development Application.




27 October 2022                             Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                     Page 4 of 31
                  1.2.13. Development Application means an application to the City for development

                  of a portion of the Project including a Subdivision or any other permit, certificate or

                  other authorization from the City required for development of the Project.

                  1.2.14. Development Report means a report containing the information specified in

                  Section 2.4.

                  1.2.15. Final Plat means the recordable map or other graphical representation of land

                  prepared in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-603 (2021), or any successor

                  provision, and approved by the City, effectuating a Subdivision of any portion of the

                  Project.

                  1.2.16. Master Developer means Royale Senior Estates Holding, LLC and its

                  assignees or transferees as permitted by this MDA.

                  1.2.17. Master Plan means the conceptual layout for Residential Dwelling Units, the

                  Assisted-living Mansion, and Public Infrastructure for the Project.

                  1.2.18. Maximum Residential Units means the development on the Property of three

                  (3) single family residential dwelling units and one (1) assisted-living mansion.

                  1.2.19. MDA means this Master Development Agreement including all of its

                  Exhibits.

                  1.2.20. Notice means any notice to or from any Party to this MDA that is either

                  required or permitted to be given to another party.

                  1.2.21. Open Space shall have the meaning as shown in the Master Plan on Exhibit B

                  1.2.22. Outsourc[e][ing] means the process of the City contracting with City

                  Consultants or paying overtime to City employees to provide technical support in the



27 October 2022                             Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                     Page 5 of 31
                  review and approval of the various aspects of a Development Application as is more

                  fully set out in this MDA.

                  1.2.23. Parcel means a portion of the Property that is created by the Master

                  Developer to be sold to a Subdeveloper as a Subdivision that is not an individually

                  developable lot as specified in Section 5.9.

                  1.2.24. Party/Parties means, in the singular, Master Developer or the City; in the

                  plural Master Developer and the City.

                  1.2.25. Planning Commission means the City’s Planning Commission.

                  1.2.26. Project means the total development to be constructed on the Property

                  pursuant to this MDA with the associated public and private facilities, and all of the

                  other aspects approved as part of this MDA.

                  1.2.27. Property means the real property owned or that will be owned by and to be

                  developed by Master Developer more fully described in Exhibit "A".

                  1.2.28. Public Infrastructure means those elements of infrastructure that are planned

                  to be dedicated to the City as a condition of the approval of a Development

                  Application.

                  1.2.29. Residential Dwelling Unit means a structure or portion thereof designed and

                  intended for use as a residence.

                  1.2.30. Subdeveloper means a person or an entity not “related” (as defined by

                  Section 165 of the Internal Revenue Code) to Master Developer which purchases a

                  Parcel for development.

                  1.2.31. Subdivision means the division of any portion of the Project into developable

                  lots pursuant to State Law and/or the Zoning Ordinance.

27 October 2022                             Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                    Page 6 of 31
                  1.2.32. Subdivision Application means the application to create a Subdivision.

                  1.2.33. Zoning means the zone or zones for the Property adopted by the City on

                  October xx, 20xx.

                  1.2.34. Zoning Ordinance means the City’s Land Use and Development Ordinance

                  adopted pursuant to the Act that was in effect as of the date of this MDA as a part of

                  the City’s Vested Laws.

     2. Development of the Project.

          2.1. Compliance with the Master Plan and this MDA. Development of the Project

          shall be in accordance with the City’s Vested Laws, the City’s Future Laws (to the extent

          that these are applicable as otherwise specified in this MDA), the Master Plan and this

          MDA. The location and specific layout of the Project as depicted on Exhibit B is

          conceptual in nature and shown for the purpose of illustrating a potential development

          configuration that is consistent with the transportation and infrastructure needs of the

          Project in compliance with the requirements of the City. Both the City and Developer

          intend to preserve some flexibility to modify the layout of the Project to respond to the

          more detailed design and engineering information which will be provided as part of the

          subdivision plat approval process. Master Developer or a Subdeveloper may submit

          applications for preliminary and final plat approval that reflect some limited

          modifications to the Master Plan, such as minor relocation of lots and street in order to

          comply with City Code, improve layout or safety standards, minimize the amount of

          grading, improve design efficiency for utilities, reduce cuts and fills, or achieve other

          similar goals and objectives as proposed by the Master Developer and approved by the

          City consistent with the other terms and conditions of this MDA. Accordingly, the City

27 October 2022                             Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                    Page 7 of 31
          will not reject any preliminary or final plat applications submitted by Master Developer

          which is generally consistent with the approved Master Plan and complies with the City’s

          Vested Laws.

          2.2. Maximum Residential Units. At Buildout of the Project, Master Developer shall be

          entitled to have developed the Maximum Residential Units as specified in and pursuant to

          this MDA of the type and in the general location as shown on the Master Plan.

          2.3. Limitation and No Guarantee. Master Developer acknowledges that the

          development of the Maximum Residential Units and every other aspect of the Master

          Plan requires that each Development Application comply with the City’s Vested Laws

          including, without limitation, the City’s geologic hazards requirements. The City’s entry

          into this MDA does not guarantee that the Master Developer will be able to construct the

          Maximum Residential Units or any other aspect of the Project until and unless all the

          applicable requirements of the City’s Vested Laws are complied with.

          2.4. Accounting for Residential Units for Parcels Sold to Subdevelopers. Any Parcel

          sold by Master Developer to a Subdeveloper shall include the transfer of a specified

          portion of the Maximum Residential Units sold with the Parcel.

          2.5. End Use and Purpose of Mansion Home. The mansion home will be built with the

          intent of providing housing as well as assisted living (level-2) care to its residents.

          Appropriate licenses will be acquired from The Utah Department of Health for assisted-

          living, level-2 care. The assisted-living mansion will consist of up to twenty-nine (29)

          studio and/or 1-bedroom units, which may include occupancy for individuals or couples,

          and one unit for nightly rentals (for loved ones visiting mansion residents).

          2.6. Aesthetics & Layout of Mansion Home. Although the mansion home will require
27 October 2022                         Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                       Page 8 of 31
          CN zoning and land use designations, it will look and feel, inside and out, like a

          residential property. It will be a place of dwelling and a home for the residents living

          there. Landscaping will be residential in nature and provide opportunities for mansion

          residents to enjoy time outdoors and entertain their guests. Commercial elements such as

          parking, loading docks, etc. will be screened from view of the 700 E. to the degree

          possible. Existing residential properties will continue to be screened by existing or, where

          necessary, updated fencing.

          2.7. Single-family Home Lots. Among the three (3) single-family dwellings there will be

          thirty thousand (30,000) square feet of shared land allocated among the three (3) single-

          family dwellings. The lot of each single-family dwelling will constitute the footprint of

          each structure. This is similar to the lots and land allocation that exist in the R4

          subdivision west of the subject Property, The Promenade on Sixth, referred to as 6th

          Street Cottages in Draper City files.

          2.8. Property Owners Association. A property owners association will be created for

          the purpose of maintaining shared common areas and to perform typical property owners

          association functions.

     3. Vested Rights.

          3.1. Vested Rights Granted by Approval of this MDA. To the maximum extent

          permissible under the laws of Utah and the United States and at equity, the Parties intend

          that this MDA grants Master Developer all rights to develop the Project in fulfillment of

          this MDA, the City’s Vested Laws, the Zoning and the Master Plan except as specifically

          provided herein. The Parties specifically intend that this MDA grant to Master Developer



27 October 2022                         Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                        Page 9 of 31
          “vested rights” as that term is construed in Utah’s common law and pursuant to Utah

          Code Ann. § 10-9a-509 (2022).

          3.2. Exceptions. The restrictions on the applicability of the City’s Future Laws to the

          Project as specified in Section 3.1 are subject to only the following exceptions:

                  3.2.1. Master Developer Agreement. City’s Future Laws that Master Developer

                  agrees in writing to the application thereof to the Project;

                  3.2.2. State and Federal Compliance. City’s Future Laws which are generally

                  applicable to all properties in the City and which are required to comply with State

                  and Federal laws and regulations affecting the Project;

                  3.2.3. Codes. Any city laws at the time of application that are updates or

                  amendments to existing building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, dangerous

                  buildings, drainage, fire, or similar construction or safety related codes, such as the

                  International Building Code, the APWA Specifications, AAHSTO Standards, the

                  Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices or similar standards that are generated by

                  a nationally or statewide recognized construction/safety organization, or by the State

                  or Federal governments and are required to meet legitimate concerns related to public

                  health, safety or welfare;

                  3.2.4. Taxes. Taxes, or modifications thereto, so long as such taxes are lawfully

                  imposed and charged uniformly by the City to all properties, applications, persons

                  and entities similarly situated;

                  3.2.5. Fees. Changes to the amounts of fees for the processing of Development

                  Applications that are generally applicable to all development within the City (or a

                  portion of the City as specified in the lawfully adopted fee schedule) and which are

27 October 2022                                Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                  Page 10 of 31
                  adopted pursuant to State law;

                  3.2.6. Impact Fees. Impact Fees or modifications thereto which are lawfully adopted,

                  and imposed by the City and which meet all requirements of the U. S. Constitution,

                  Utah Constitution, law and applicable statutes, including but not limited to Utah Code

                  Ann. Section 11-36a-101 (2022) et seq.;

                  3.2.7. Planning and Zoning Modification. Changes by the City to its planning

                  principles and design standards such as architectural or design requirements, setbacks

                  or similar items so long as such changes do not work to reduce the Maximum

                  Residential Units, are generally applicable across the entire City and do not materially

                  and unreasonably increase the costs of any Development; or

                  3.2.8. Compelling, Countervailing Interest. Laws, rules or regulations that the City’s

                  land use authority finds, on the record, are necessary to avoid jeopardizing a

                  compelling, countervailing public interest pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-

                  509(1)(a)(i) (2022).

     4. Term of Agreement. The effective date of this MDA shall be October xx, 2022. This

MDA shall expire October xx, 2032. If Master Developer has not been declared to be currently

in Default as of October xx, 2032 (and if any such Default is not being cured) then this MDA

shall be automatically extended until October xx, 2034. This MDA shall also terminate

automatically at Buildout.

     5. Processing of Development Applications.

          5.1. Outsourcing of Processing of Development Applications. Within twenty-one (21)

          calendar days after receipt of a Development Application and upon the request of

          Applicant the City and Applicant will confer to determine whether the City desires to

27 October 2022                            Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                       Page 11 of 31
          Outsource the review of any aspect of the Development Application to ensure that it is

          processed on a timely basis. If the City determines that Outsourcing is necessary to

          ensure the timely processing of the Development Application then the City shall

          promptly estimate the reasonably anticipated differential cost of Outsourcing in good

          faith consultation with the Applicant (either overtime to City employees or the hiring of a

          City Consultant). If Applicant notifies the City that it desires to proceed with the

          Outsourcing based on the City’s estimate of costs then Applicant shall deposit in advance

          with the City the estimated differential cost and the City shall then promptly proceed with

          having the work Outsourced. Upon completion of the Outsourcing services and the

          provision by the City of an invoice (with such reasonable supporting documentation as

          may be requested by Applicant) for the actual differential cost (whether by way of paying

          a City Consultant or paying overtime to City employees) of Outsourcing, Applicant shall,

          within thirty (30) calendar days pay or receive credit (as the case may be) for any

          difference between the estimated differential cost deposited for the Outsourcing and the

          actual cost differential.

          5.2. Acceptance of Certifications Required for Development Applications. Any

          Development Application requiring the signature, endorsement, or certification and/or

          stamping by a person holding a license or professional certification required by the State

          of Utah in a particular discipline shall be so signed, endorsed, certified or stamped

          signifying that the contents of the Development Application comply with the applicable

          regulatory standards of the City. The City should endeavor to make all of its redlines,

          comments or suggestions at the time of the first review of the Development Application

          unless any changes to the Development Application raise new issues that need to be

27 October 2022                        Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                     Page 12 of 31
          addressed.

          5.3. Independent Technical Analyses for Development Applications. If the City

          needs technical expertise beyond the City’s internal resources to determine impacts of a

          Development Application such as for structures, bridges, water tanks, and other similar

          matters which are not required by the City’s Vested Laws to be certified by such experts

          as part of a Development Application, the City may engage such experts as City

          Consultants with the actual and reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant.

          The City Consultant undertaking any review by the City required or permitted by

          this MDA shall be selected from a list generated by the City for each such City

          review pursuant to a “request for proposal” process or as otherwise allowed by

          City ordinances or regulations. Applicant may, in its sole discretion, strike from

          the list of qualified proposers any of such proposed consultants so long as at least

          three (3) qualified proposers remain for selection. The anticipated cost and

          timeliness of such review may be a factor in choosing the expert. The actual and

          reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant.

          5.4. City Denial of a Development Application. If the City denies a Development

          Application the City shall provide a written determination advising the Applicant of the

          reasons for denial including specifying the reasons the City believes that the

          Development Application is not consistent with this MDA, the Zoning and/or the City’s

          Vested Laws (or, if applicable, the City’s Future Laws).

          5.5. Meet and Confer regarding Development Application Denials. The City and

          Applicant shall meet within twenty-one (21) calendar days of any Denial to resolve the

          issues specified in the Denial of a Development Application.
27 October 2022                        Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                   Page 13 of 31
          5.6. City Denials of Development Applications Based on Denials from Non-City

          Agencies. If the City’s denial of a Development Application is based on the denial of the

          Development Application by a Non-City Agency, Applicant shall appeal any such denial

          through the appropriate procedures for such a decision and not through the processes

          specified below.

          5.7. Mediation of Development Application Denials.

                  5.7.1. Issues Subject to Mediation. Issues resulting from the City’s Denial of a

                  Development Application that the parties are not able to resolve by “Meet and

                  Confer” shall be mediated and include the following:

                                     (i)      the location of On-Site Infrastructure, including utility lines

                                     and stub outs to adjacent developments,

                                     (ii)      right-of-way modifications that do not involve the altering

                                     or vacating of a previously dedicated public right-of-way,

                                     (iii)     interpretations, minor technical edits or inconsistencies

                                     necessary to clarify or modify documents consistent with their

                                     intended purpose of the Development Standards, and

                                     (iv)     the issuance of building permits.

                  5.7.2. Mediation Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve a

                  disagreement subject to mediation, the parties shall attempt within fifteen (15)

                  calendar days to appoint a mutually acceptable mediator with knowledge of the legal

                  issue in dispute. If the City and Applicant are unable to agree on a single acceptable

                  mediator they shall each, within fifteen (15) calendar days, appoint their own

                  representative. These two representatives shall, between them, choose the single

27 October 2022                              Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                     Page 14 of 31
                  mediator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen mediator, each

                  Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen mediator shall within fifteen (15) calendar

                  days, review the positions of the parties regarding the mediation issue and promptly

                  attempt to mediate the issue between the parties. If the parties are unable to reach

                  agreement, the mediator shall notify the parties in writing of the ordinance that the

                  mediator deems appropriate. The mediator's opinion shall not be binding on the

                  parties.

          5.8. Arbitration of Development Application Objections.

                  5.8.1. Arbitration Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve an issue

                  through mediation, the parties may then attempt within fifteen (15) calendar days to

                  appoint a mutually acceptable arbitrator with knowledge of the legal issue in dispute.

                  If the parties are unable to agree on a single acceptable arbitrator they shall each,

                  within fifteen (15) calendar days, each Party shall appoint their own individual

                  appropriate expert. These two experts shall, between them, choose the single

                  arbitrator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen arbitrator, each

                  Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen arbitrator shall within fifteen (15) calendar

                  days, review the positions of the parties regarding the arbitration issue and render a

                  decision. The arbitrator shall ask the prevailing party to draft a proposed order for

                  consideration and objection by the other side. Upon adoption by the arbitrator, and

                  consideration of such objections, the arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding

                  upon both parties. If the arbitrator determines as a part of the decision that the City’s

                  or Applicant’s position was not only incorrect but was also maintained unreasonably



27 October 2022                             Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                      Page 15 of 31
                  and not in good faith then the arbitrator may order the City or Applicant to pay the

                  arbitrator’s fees.

          5.9. Parcel Sales. The City acknowledges that the precise location and details of the

          public improvements, lot layout and design and any other similar item regarding the

          development of a particular Parcel may not be known at the time of the creation of or sale

          of a Parcel. Master Developer may obtain approval of a Subdivision as is provided in

          Utah Code Ann., Section 10-9a-103(64)(c)(v) (2019) that does not create any

          individually developable lots in the Parcel without being subject to any requirement in

          the City’s Vested Laws to complete or provide security for any Public Infrastructure at

          the time of such subdivision. The responsibility for completing and providing security

          for completion of any Public Infrastructure in the Parcel shall be that of the Master

          Developer or a Subdeveloper upon a subsequent re-Subdivision of the Parcel that creates

          individually developable lots. However, construction of improvements shall not be

          allowed until the Master Developer or Subdeveloper complies with the City’s Vested

          Laws.

     6. Application Under City’s Future Laws. Without waiving any rights granted by this

MDA, Master Developer may at any time, choose to submit a Development Application for all

or part of the Project under the City’s Future Laws in effect at the time of the Development

Application so long as Master Developer is not in current breach of this Agreement.

     7. Public Infrastructure.

          7.1. Construction by and Master Developer. Master Developer shall have the right and

          the obligation to construct or cause to be constructed and installed all Public



27 October 2022                            Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                    Page 16 of 31
          Infrastructure reasonably and lawfully required as a condition of approval of the

          Development Application pursuant to the City’s Vested Laws.

          7.2. Bonding. If and to the extent required by the City's Vested Laws, unless otherwise

          provided by Chapter 10-9a of the Utah Code as amended, security for any Public or

          private Infrastructure—is required by the City Applicant shall provide it in a form

          acceptable to the City as specified in the City's Vested Laws. Partial releases of any such

          required security shall be made as work progresses based on the City's Vested Laws.

     8. Upsizing/Reimbursements to Master Developer.

          8.1. "Upsizing". The City shall not require Master Developer to “upsize” any future

          Public Infrastructure (i.e., to construct the infrastructure to a size larger than required to

          service the Project) unless financial arrangements reasonably acceptable to Master

          Developer are made to compensate Master Developer for the incremental or additive

          costs of such upsizing. For example, if an upsizing to a water pipe size increases costs by

          10% but adds 50% more capacity, the City shall only be responsible to compensate

          Master Developer for the 10% cost increase. An acceptable financial arrangement for

          upsizing of improvements means reimbursement agreements, payback agreements, and

          impact fee credits and reimbursements.

     9. Default.

          9.1. Notice. If Master Developer or a Subdeveloper or the City fails to perform their

          respective obligations hereunder or to comply with the terms hereof, the Party believing

          that a Default has occurred shall provide Notice to the other Party. If the City believes

          that the Default has been committed by a Subdeveloper then the City shall also provide a

          courtesy copy of the Notice to Master Developer.

27 October 2022                          Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                      Page 17 of 31
          9.2. Contents of the Notice of Default. The Notice of Default shall:

                  9.2.1. Specific Claim. Specify the claimed event of Default;

                  9.2.2. Applicable Provisions. Identify with particularity the provisions of any

                  applicable law, rule, regulation or provision of this MDA that is claimed to be in

                  Default;

                  9.2.3. Materiality. Identify why the Default is claimed to be material; and

                  9.2.4. Optional Cure. If the City chooses, in its discretion, it may propose a method

                  and time for curing the Default which shall be of no less than thirty (30) calendar

                  days duration.

          9.3. Meet and Confer, Mediation, Arbitration. Upon the issuance of a Notice of

          Default the parties shall engage in the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation” processes

          specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the claimed Default is subject to Arbitration as

          provided in Section 5.8 then the parties shall follow such processes.

          9.4. Remedies. If the parties are not able to resolve the Default by “Meet and Confer” or

          by “Mediation”, and if the Default is not subject to arbitration then the parties may have

          the following remedies, except as specifically limited in 10.9:

                  9.4.1. Law and Equity. All rights and remedies available at law and in equity,

                  including, but not limited to, injunctive relief and/or specific performance.

                  9.4.2. Security. The right to draw on any security posted or provided in connection

                  with the Project and relating to remedying of the particular Default.

                  9.4.3. Future Approvals. The right to withhold all further reviews, approvals,

                  licenses, building permits and/or other permits for development of the Project in the

                  case of a default by Master Developer, or in the case of a default by a Subdeveloper,

27 October 2022                             Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                     Page 18 of 31
                  development of those Parcels owned by the Subdeveloper until the Default has been

                  cured.

          9.5. Public Meeting. Before any remedy in Section 9.4 may be imposed by the City the

          party allegedly in Default shall be afforded the right to attend a public meeting before the

          City Council and address the City Council regarding the claimed Default.

          9.6. Emergency Defaults. Anything in this MDA notwithstanding, if the City Council

          finds on the record that a default materially impairs a compelling, countervailing interest

          of the City and that any delays in imposing such a default would also impair a

          compelling, countervailing interest of the City then the City may impose the remedies of

          Section 9.4 without the requirements of Sections 9.5. The City shall give Notice to

          Master Developer and/or any applicable Subdeveloper of any public meeting at which an

          emergency default is to be considered and the Master Developer and/or any applicable

          Subdeveloper shall be allowed to address the City Council at that meeting regarding the

          claimed emergency Default.

          9.7. Extended Cure Period. If any Default cannot be reasonably cured within thirty (30)

          calendar days then such cure period shall be extended so long as the defaulting party is

          pursuing a cure with reasonable diligence.

          9.8. Default of Assignee. A default of any obligations assumed by an assignee shall not

          be deemed a default of Master Developer.

          9.9. Limitation on Recovery for Default – No Damages. Anything in this MDA

          notwithstanding no Party shall be entitled to any claim for any monetary damages as a

          result of any breach of this MDA and each Party waives any claims thereto. The sole

          remedy available to Master Developer or any Subdeveloper shall be that of specific

27 October 2022                           Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                  Page 19 of 31
          performance.

     10. Notices. All notices required or permitted under this MDA shall, in addition to any other

means of transmission, be given in writing by certified mail and regular mail to the following

address:

     To the Master Developer:

     Justin Earl
     J.B. Earl Company
     2630 Canyon Rd.
     Springville, UT 84663
     justin@jbearlco.com
     801-971-7400

     With a Copy to:

Gretta Spendlove
Dentons Durham Jones Pinegar P.C.
111 South Main Street, Suite 2400
Salt Lake City, UT 84111
   gretta.spendlove@dentons.com +1 801 415 3000
   To the City:

     Draper City
     Attn: City Manager
     David Dobbins
     1020 East Pioneer Road
     Draper, UT 84020
     David.dobbins@draper.ut.us
     (801) 576-6500

     With a Copy to:

     Draper City
     Attn: City Attorney
     Mike Barker
     1020 East Pioneer Road
     Draper, UT 84020
     Mike.barker@draper.ut.us
     (801) 576-6500


          10.1. Effectiveness of Notice. Except as otherwise provided in this MDA, each Notice
27 October 2022                      Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                   Page 20 of 31
          shall be effective and shall be deemed delivered on the earlier of:

                  10.1.1. Hand Delivery. Its actual receipt, if delivered personally, by courier service,

                  or by facsimile provided that a copy of the facsimile Notice is mailed or personally

                  delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has confirmation

                  of transmission receipt of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same day, then

                  notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal delivery occurs.

                  10.1.2. Electronic Delivery. Its actual receipt if delivered electronically by email

                  provided that a copy of the email is printed out in physical form and mailed or

                  personally delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has an

                  electronic receipt of the delivery of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same

                  day, then notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal

                  delivery occurs.

                  10.1.3. Mailing. On the day the Notice is postmarked for mailing, postage prepaid,

                  by First Class or Certified United States Mail and actually deposited in or delivered to

                  the United States Mail. Any party may change its address for Notice under this MDA

                  by giving written Notice to the other party in accordance with the provisions of this

                  Section.

     11. Headings. The captions used in this MDA are for convenience only and a not intended

to be substantive provisions or evidences of intent.

     12. No Third-Party Rights/No Joint Venture. This MDA does not create a joint venture

relationship, partnership or agency relationship between the City and Master Developer. Further,

the parties do not intend this MDA to create any third-party beneficiary rights. The Parties

acknowledge that this MDA refers to a private development and that the City has no interest in,

27 October 2022                             Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                    Page 21 of 31
responsibility for or duty to any third parties concerning any improvements to the Property or

unless the City has accepted the dedication of such improvements at which time all rights and

responsibilities—except for warranty bond requirements under City’s Vested Laws and as

allowed by state law—for the dedicated public improvement shall be the City's.

     13. Assignability. The rights and responsibilities of Master Developer under this MDA may

be assigned in whole or in part, respectively, by Master Developer with the consent of the City as

provided herein.

          13.1. Sale of Lots. Master Developer’s selling or conveying lots in any approved

          Subdivision or Parcels to builders, users, or Subdevelopers, shall not be deemed to be an

          “assignment” subject to the above-referenced approval by the City unless specifically

          designated as such an assignment by Master Developer.

          13.2. Related Entity. Master Developer’s transfer of all or any part of the Property to

          any entity “related” to Master Developer (as defined by regulations of the Internal

          Revenue Service in Section 165), Master Developer’s entry into a joint venture for the

          development of the Project or Master Developer’s pledging of part or all of the Project as

          security for financing shall also not be deemed to be an “assignment” subject to the

          above-referenced approval by the City unless specifically designated as such an

          assignment by the Master Developer. Master Developer shall give the City Notice of any

          event specified in this sub-section within fifteen (15) calendar days after the event has

          occurred. Such Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact

          information for the newly responsible party.

          13.3. Notice. Master Developer shall give Notice to the City of any proposed

          assignment and provide such information regarding the proposed assignee that the City

27 October 2022                        Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                     Page 22 of 31
          may reasonably request in making the evaluation permitted under this Section. Such

          Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact information for the

          proposed assignee.

          13.4. Time for Objection. Unless the City objects in writing within thirty (30) calendar

          days of notice, the City shall be deemed to have approved of and consented to the

          assignment.

          13.5. Partial Assignment. If any proposed assignment is for less than all of Master

          Developer’s rights and responsibilities then the assignee shall be responsible for the

          performance of each of the obligations contained in this MDA to which the assignee

          succeeds. Upon any such approved partial assignment Master Developer shall not be

          released from any future obligations as to those obligations which are assigned but shall

          remain responsible for the performance of any obligations herein.

          13.6. Denial. The City may only withhold its consent if the City is not reasonably

          satisfied of the assignee’s financial ability to perform the obligations of or Master

          Developer proposed to be assigned or there is an existing breach of a development

          obligation owed to the City by the assignee or related entity that has not either been cured

          or in the process of being cured in a manner acceptable to the City. Any refusal of the

          City to accept an assignment shall be subject to the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation”

          processes specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the refusal is subject to Arbitration as

          provided in Section 5.8 then the Parties shall follow such processes.

          13.7. Assignees Bound by MDA. Any assignee shall consent in writing to be bound by

          the assigned terms and conditions of this MDA as a condition precedent to the

          effectiveness of the assignment. That consent shall specifically acknowledge the

27 October 2022                         Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                     Page 23 of 31
          provisions of Section 2.

     14. Binding Effect. If Master Developer sells or conveys Parcels of lands to Subdevelopers

or related parties, the lands so sold and conveyed shall bear the same rights, privileges,

configurations, and number of Residential Dwelling Units as applicable to such Parcel and be

subject to the same limitations and rights of the City when owned by or Master Developer and as

set forth in this MDA without any required approval, review, or consent by the City except as

otherwise provided herein.

     15. No Waiver. Failure of any Party hereto to exercise any right hereunder shall not be

deemed a waiver of any such right and shall not affect the right of such party to exercise at some

future date any such right or any other right it may have.

     16. Severability. If any provision of this MDA is held by a court of competent jurisdiction

to be invalid for any reason, the Parties consider and intend that this MDA shall be deemed

amended to the extent necessary to make it consistent with such decision and the balance of this

MDA shall remain in full force and affect.

     17. Force Majeure. Any prevention, delay or stoppage of the performance of any obligation

under this Agreement which is due to strikes, labor disputes, inability to obtain labor, materials,

equipment or reasonable substitutes therefor; acts of nature, governmental restrictions,

regulations or controls, judicial orders, enemy or hostile government actions, wars, civil

commotions, fires or other casualties or other causes beyond the reasonable control of the Party

obligated to perform hereunder shall excuse performance of the obligation by that Party for a

period equal to the duration of that prevention, delay or stoppage.

     18. Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence to this MDA and every right or

responsibility shall be performed within the times specified.

27 October 2022                      Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                       Page 24 of 31
     19. Appointment of Representatives. To further the commitment of the Parties to

cooperate in the implementation of this MDA, the City and Master Developer each shall

designate and appoint a representative to act as a liaison between the City and its various

departments and the Master Developer. The initial representative for the City shall be the City

Manager. The initial representative for Master Developer shall be Bruce Bastian. The Parties

may change their designated representatives by Notice. The representatives shall be available at

all reasonable times to discuss and review the performance of the Parties to this MDA and the

development of the Project.

     20. Applicable Law. This MDA is entered into in Salt Lake County in the State of Utah and

shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah irrespective of Utah’s choice

of law rules.

     21. Venue. Any action to enforce this MDA shall be brought only in the Third District Court

for the State of Utah, Salt Lake City Division.

     22. Entire Agreement. This MDA, and all Exhibits thereto, is the entire agreement between

the Parties and may not be amended or modified except either as provided herein or by a

subsequent written amendment signed by all Parties.

     23. Mutual Drafting. Each Party has participated in negotiating and drafting this MDA and

therefore no provision of this MDA shall be construed for or against any Party based on which

Party drafted any particular portion of this MDA.

     24. Recordation and Running with the Land. This MDA shall be recorded in the chain of

title for the Project. This MDA shall be deemed to run with the land. The data disk of the City’s

Vested Laws, Exhibit “C”, shall not be recorded in the chain of title. A secure copy of Exhibit

“C” shall be filed with the City Recorder and each party shall also have an identical copy.

27 October 2022                      Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                    Page 25 of 31
     25. Authority. The Parties to this MDA each warrant that they have all of the necessary

authority to execute this MDA. Specifically, on behalf of the City, the signature of the City

Manager of the City is affixed to this MDA lawfully binding the City pursuant to Ordinance No.

___ adopted by the City on October xx, 2022.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement by and through

their respective, duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first herein above written.

MASTER DEVELOPER                                     CITY
Justin Earl                                          Draper City

_______________________                             _____________________
By: ________________                                By: ___________,
Its: _________________                              Its: City Manager
Date: ____________                                  Date: ____________

Approved as to form and legality:                    Attest:

__________________                                   __________________
City Attorney                                        City Recorder

CITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH                  )
                                   :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

On the _xx__ day of October, 2022 personally appeared before me ___________who being by
me duly sworn, did say that he is the City Manager of Draper City, a political subdivision of the
State of Utah, and that said instrument was signed in behalf of the City by authority of its City
Council and said City Manager acknowledged to me that the City executed the same.

                                                     __________________________________
                                                     NOTARY PUBLIC


My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________



27 October 2022                           Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                Page 26 of 31
MASTER DEVELOPER ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH       )
                    :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       On the _xx__ day of October, 2022, personally appeared before me ______________,
who being by me duly sworn, did say that he/she is the ______________ of ______________, a
Utah ______________ and that the foregoing instrument was duly authorized by the company at
a lawful meeting held by authority of its operating agreement and signed in behalf of said
company.

                                                       ______________________________
                                                       NOTARY PUBLIC

My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________




27 October 2022                   Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022                Page 27 of 31
                  TABLE OF EXHIBITS


Exhibit “A”                  Legal Description of Property
Exhibit “B”                  Master Plan
Exhibit “C”                  City’s Vested Laws




27 October 2022   Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022          Page 28 of 31
                                            Exhibit “A”
                                    Legal Description of Property

Property is known by the street addresses of:
Parcel 1: 12430 S 700 East, Draper, UT 84020
Parcel 2: 12442 S 700 East, Draper, UT 84020
Parcel 3: 12450 S 700 East, Draper, UT 84020

The Land is described as follows:

Real property in the County of Salt Lake, State of UT, described as follows:

COMMENCING AT THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF SECTION 29, TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH,
RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, AND FROM WHICH THE WEST
QUARTER CORNER OF SAID SECTION 29 BEARS N00°06’00”E; THENCE N45°41’48”E
410.19 FEET TO A BRASS CAP MARKING THE MONUMENT LINE OF 700 EAST (THE
BASIS OF BEARING) 290.74 FEET AND WEST 41.25 FEET TO THE WEST RIGHT OF
WAY OF 700 EAST, THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF PARCEL 28-29-351-012 AS
DESCRIBED IN WARRENTY DEED RECORDING AS ENTRY NO. 12120267 OF THE
OFFICIAL RECORDS AND THE POINT OF BEGINNING;

THENCE COINCIDENT TO SAID PARCEL S88°12’38”W 57.97 FEET; THENCE
S89°12’00”W 148.82 FEET TO A FOUND 5/8” REBAR AND CAP LS#5251295, MARKING
A SOUTHEAST CORNER OF THE 6TH STREET COTTAGES SUBDIVISION; THENCE
THE FOLLOWING TWO COURSES AND DISTANCES ALONG SAID SUBDIVISION; (1)
NORTH 75.20 FEET TO A FOUND 5/8” REBAR AND CAP LS#5251295; (2) THENCE
S89°12’00”W 107.76 FEET TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF PARCEL 28-30-478-007,
DESCRIBED IN A SPECIAL WARRENTY DEED RECORDED AS ENTRY NO. 11509275
OF THE OFFICIAL RECORDS; THENCE N00°39’00”W 181.67 FEET COINCIDENT TO
THE EAST LINE OF SAID PARCEL; THENCE S89°30’00”E 129.82 FEET; THENCE
NORTH 6.86 FEET; THENCE S89°30’00”E 185.85 FEET TO THE WEST RIGHT OF WAY
OF 700 EAST; THENCE S00°12’04”E 255.57 ALONG SAID RIGHT OF WAY TO THE
POINT OF BEGINNING.




27 October 2022                       Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022        Page 29 of 31
                          Exhibit “B”
                          Master Plan




27 October 2022   Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022   Page 30 of 31
                         Exhibit “C”
                     City’s Vested Laws




27 October 2022   Draper City Contract #DA-156-2022   Page 31 of 31
       EXHIBIT K
APPLICANT QUESTIONNAIRE
Royale Estate & Cottages
Zoning Map Amendment Application




                                                        CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
A Better Way to Provide Assisted & Independent Living
Concept




                                 CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Introduction
A Home –
Not a Facility.
State of the art medical care
delivered in the comfort of an
elegant home environment.
                 Industry
                 Status Quo




CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Small-scale
Facilities




                                                 CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Pros
▪ Personalized, home-like feel
▪ Smaller community atmosphere
▪ More affordable

Cons
▪ Limited staff & care options
▪ Limited amenities, dining options,
  and activity programs
▪ Usually converted homes – not
  purpose built
  ▪    Residents often share shower
       rooms – i.e., individual units only
       have half baths.
  ▪    Medical & closets, emergency
       call systems, fire sprinklers, lights &
       safety – inconveniently located;
       not fully integrated.
Large-scale
Facilities




                                            CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Pros
▪ Supports larger staffs, activities, and
  amenity offerings.
▪ Specialized managers for each
  department: meals/dining,
  activities, programs, maintenance,
  resident care coordinator, etc.
▪ Transportation for doctor visits and
  community outings

Cons
▪ Look and feel of a medical
  facility; institutional, sterile and
  impersonal.
▪ Residents get lost in the crowd –
  become a room number; rather than
  a name and a person.
▪ Too big for some residents to navigate
  without motorized assistance.
                                                                                              Optimized staff
                                                                                              ratios for superior
A Better Way –                                                                                levels of care,
                                                                                              interaction, and
A Purpose-built Residence Home                                                                activities.




                                          Amenities for
                                          residents and
                                          entertaining their
                                          family and guests.




                                 CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Optimized Staffing Ratio




                                        CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
One Staffer for Every Six Residents

▪ “Personal-touch” staffing ratio
   ▪ Timely, intimate care
   ▪ Focus is on the Individual
   ▪ Less nursing errors and resident
     falls
Interactive Kitchen
& Chef




                                              CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
• No cafeteria or 4-top tables.
• Family style seating with large table,
  rather than individual, isolated seating.
• Open kitchen concept with interactive
  chef for every meal.
• Daily gourmet meals.
• Breakfast cooked to order.
• Meals delivered to resident rooms at
  any time free of charge.
Amenities designed specifically for residents
AND their guests




                                 CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
      Plentiful Common                                                         Thoughtfully Designed
                  Space                                                        Resident Rooms
            Meaningful activities.                                             Generous living space;
 Interaction & engagement with                                                 bedrooms, bathrooms, etc.
                 fellow residents.                                             Layouts maximize privacy &
Ample space for multiple families                                              accessibility.
  to visit loved ones at the same                                              Deck or patio off each bedroom.
                              time.




                                      CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
                                                                  Royale   Small-scale   Large-scale
A Better                                                          Estate    Facilities     Facilities

Way –           Small, Close-knit Community




                                                                                                        CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Purpose Built   Home-like Feel (Doesn’t look like a facility)
Residence       Transportation for Outings & Doctor Visits
Homes
                Specialized Staff & Activities Programming
                Family-event Space
                Full-service Salon for Hair, Nails, etc.
                Fitness, Physical Therapy Space
                Theater Room
                Fishpond, Gazebo, and Firepit
                Sunroom Library
                Exhibition-style Aquarium
                Pool & Sauna
                Playground
                Ping-pong, Fuse Ball, and Billiards

                  Nearly Always       Rarely       Almost Never
Current Site
12430, 12442, & 12450 S. 700 E.




                                  CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Current Site
12430, 12442, & 12450 S. 700 E.




                                  CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Requested Land Use Designation

Seeking to develop a small subdivision
of three (3) single-family homes and a
mansion home for assisted living.




                                         CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Requested Land Use Designation
 • Medium Density – Three Single family home lots to be situated on shared 30k+ of open
   green space.
 • Neighborhood Commercial – Single 1-acre lot for construction and operation of a senior
   mansion home. This mansion will provide residents the full residential comforts they knew
   before they required assisted care.

                                 Current Land Use                                       Requested Land Use



                                  Pioneer Rd.




                                                700 E



                                                        CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Requested Zoning Designation
 • R4 – Three Single family home lots to be situated on shared 30k+ of open green space.
 • CN – Single 1-acre lot for construction and operation of a senior mansion home. This
   mansion will provide residents the full residential comforts they knew before they required
   assisted care.




                                                Requested Zoning
  Current Zoning




                                                                   CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Reasons for request and justification
for approval




                              CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Reasons for request and justification for approval

1. The mansion home will look and feel, inside and out, like a residential property. It will be
   a place of dwelling and a home for the residents living there. Despite the classification
   as a commercial use, it fits very well into the fabric of the neighborhood.
2. Being located on a minor collector road is ideal for a peaceful residence, while also
   providing convenient accessibility for family & friends visiting their loved ones.
3. Current residents at neighborhood meeting expressed preference for the mansion
   concept over a subdivision of consisting solely of SFH units.




                                                        CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Reasons for request and justification for approval

Beautify & improve the neighborhood
on 700 E. near Pioneer Road by
1. Replacing under utilized & overgrown yard
   space with beautiful landscaping,
   trees/shrubs, water features, etc.
2. Replacing 3 aged & tired homes with 3 new &
   attractive homes.
3. Building an attractive mansion with beautiful
   residential exterior.
4. At Neighborhood Meeting (June 29, 2022)
   multiple residents voiced support for the
   beautification & improved aesthetics the
   project and its landscaping will bring to the
   site.




                                                   CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Reasons for request and justification for approval
When the Mayor and City Council make decisions, they base these
decisions on the following values:




                             - Draper 2019 General Plan, pg. 7




                                                                 CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Reasons for request and justification for approval




                                                                          CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
                               - Draper 2019 General Plan, pg. 7


Unity – Close proximity and shared green space between
mansion and single-family homes will encourage
• Unity among neighbors of all ages.
• Meaningful integration of senior residents into the fabric
  of the neighborhood.


  Senior care facilities are often sequestered from surrounding
  neighborhoods and are not well integrated into the community,
  further isolating citizens who already struggle with limited mobility
  and social interaction outside of their immediate residence.
Reasons for request and justification for approval


                                       - Draper 2019 General Plan, pg. 7


 Respect – Respecting our senior citizens is more than
 just providing for their medical needs.

 Truly understanding and being sensitive to their needs
 means allowing them a quality of life that both

 • Allows the comforts & social inclusion that they want and
 • Provides the assisted care & services they need.



   Once assisted care is required, senior citizens are put
   into housing where they often feel institutionalized,
   abandoned, and forgotten.




                                                                    CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Reasons for request and justification for approval


                                   - Draper 2019 General Plan, pg. 7

 Quality of Life – Empowering senior citizens to enjoy a high quality of life, by enabling them to
 • Feel safe, by feeling “home.”
 • Have places to gather and continue hosting & entertaining family/friends.
 • Continue enjoying family events, traditions, & culture.




                                                                 CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Reasons for request and justification for approval




                                                                          CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
                                      - Draper 2019 General Plan, pg. 7



 Environment - Provide an environment where our
 senior citizens can
 • Access outdoor activity easily and regularly.
 • Enrich their lives with social & recreational activities.
Reasons for request and justification for approval


                               - Draper 2019 General Plan, pg. 7

 Pride - Create a mixed community where citizens of all ages can
 • Take pride in the place they call home.
 • Achieve the full extent of their well being.




                                                                   CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Neighborhood Meeting (June 29, 2022)

Summary I
• Draper Library - Nearly 20 people in attendance.
• Meeting started out with several people feeling
  leery and making skeptical comments.
• Presentation ended very positively with most
  people in favor of the project, or at least not
  against it.
• Many expressed relief that the project was not
  bringing in large number of SFHs or a multifamily
  complex.
• Most were pleased with concept of a senior
  mansion designed to provide care in a homelike
  environment.




                                                      CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Neighborhood Meeting (June 29, 2022)
Summary II
• After the presentation everyone was invited
  to take a survey to get more information on
  people's opinions & preferences.
• People expressed preference for more
  traditional architectural designs over modern
  designs.


Anecdotes
• After the feedback session, two elderly
  neighbors approached us to inquire
  about pricing and when units in the
  mansion would become available
• A next-door neighbor expressed interest
  in working as staff at the mansion.



                                                  CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Neighborhood Meeting (June 29, 2022)
Summary III
• Vision boards were set out with various
  exterior and architectural design
  concepts.
• People were asked to place green
  stickers on the images they liked and red
  stickers on the images they disliked.
• Again, a preference for more traditional
  design was evident.




                                              CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
How requested land use designation is harmonious with overall character
of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property
1. Royale Estate Mansion looks and feels, inside and out, like a residential property.
   It will be a place of dwelling and a home for the residents living there.

2. Precedent of Neighborhood
   Commercial 173 ft. to the North.
3. Precedent of nearby assisted living
   facilities that
    • Are not residential in nature.
    • Look and feel like medical
      facilities.
    • Have limited, to no, outdoor




                                                                                                                     700 E
      green space.




                                                                           600 E
    • Have larger unit counts.




                                                    CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
How requested zoning designation is harmonious with overall character
of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property
1. Royale Estate Mansion looks and feels, inside and out, like a residential property.
   It will be a place of dwelling and a home for the residents living there.

2. Precedent of CN zoning 173 ft. to
   the North.
3. Precedent of R4 zoning directly to
   the West.
4. Precedent of nearby assisted living                                                                          CN
   facilities that                                                                   Pioneer Rd.

    • Are not residential in nature.
    • Look and feel like medical
      facilities.




                                                                           600 E
    • Have limited, to no, outdoor                                                              R4




                                                                                                                           700 E
      green space.
    • Have larger unit counts.


                                                    CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
How proposed land use
designation is consistent
with goals, objectives,
and policies of the City’s
General Plan




                             CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Open Space & Recreation




            - Draper 2019 General Plan, pg. 11




                                                            Nearby assisted living facilities in
                                                            Draper have very limited green
                                                            space. Enjoying meaningful time
                                                            outside, or even socializing with
                                                            loved ones in a recreational
                                                            setting, is limited.



                                                 CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Open Space & Recreation
                                             Royale Estate & Cottages will provide open spaces &
                                             amenities that residents can enjoy on a daily basis.
                                             These are designed to encourage social interactions
                                             between senior residents, as well as enabling them to
                                             continue hosting and entertaining family & friends.
        - Draper 2019 General Plan, pg. 11




                                                       CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Quality Housing for All Life Stages and Physical Needs




              - Draper 2019 General Plan, pg. 10




                                                   Senior facilities in Draper offer institutional
                                                   environments. These residents are effectively
                                                   excluded from quality, homelike housing
                                                   options, simply because of their
                                                   • Stage in Life and
                                                   • Medical & Physical Needs.

                                                    CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Quality Housing for All Life Stages and Physical Needs

                                                          Royale Estate & Cottages will contribute to
                                                          Draper’s housing goals by providing high quality
                                                          housing that would otherwise be unavailable to
                                                          certain citizens, simply because of their stage in
                                                          life and medical needs.



                     - Draper 2019 General Plan, pg. 10



  Draper currently lacks housing options
  that provide both assisted-living care
  AND a truly residential quality of life that
  seniors enjoyed during earlier phases of
  life. (e.g. homelike gathering places,
  amenities for hosting, residential
  landscaping, etc.)



                                                              CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Land Use & Character




                     - Draper 2019 General Plan, pg. 13



Royale Estate & Cottages’ open green
space, single-family homes, and mansion
will complement each other aesthetically,
as well as creating an interwoven
community with an unsurpassed quality of
life.




                                                          CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Housing & Neighborhood Goals
                                                                                             • Royale Estate will meet the
                                                                                               unique housing needs of the
                                                                                               elderly and disabled.
                                                                                             • Royale Estate will encourage
                                                                                               social links with the
                                                                                               surrounding community.
                                                                                             • Initially, we expect to attract
                                                                                               level-1 care residents
                                                                                               (independent living).
                                                                                               However, we will be licensed
                                                                                               up to level-2 care (assisted
                                                                                               living), thus enabling residents
                                                                                               to continue receiving the care
                                                                                               they need as they age in
                                                                                               place.


                                          - Draper 2019 General Plan, pg. 30-31
     - Draper 2019 General Plan, pg. 30

                                                          CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Facilities and services, such as roadways and utilities, sufficient to serve
the property under the proposed zoning:

• Water Pro confirmed that waterflow from the 12” culinary main line under 700 E.
  has sufficient capacity for the proposed project/zoning.

• South Valley Sewer has confirmed that the existing sewer capacity is sufficient
  in this location for three SFHs and a 26-unit senior mansion.

• 700 E, a minor collector, is sufficient for the limited volume of trips generated by
  three SFH dwellings and a 26-unit assisted living home.

   • See mansion’s projected peak-hour trips on following slide.




                                                  CONFIDENTIAL - Do not share, duplicate, distribute without permission from Summerland Management, LLC
Facilities and services, such as roadways and utilities, sufficient to serve
the property under the proposed zoning:
Traffic projections based on The Institute of Transportation Engineers
                                                                               The 2018 Provo data were collected at
 Institute of Transportation Engineers               Royale Estate
                                                                               the Provo Assisted Living (PAL) site,
             (Land Use 254)                           Equivalent
                                                                               located at 462 South 900 East, Provo,
             AM Peak           PM Peak               AM Peak         PM Peak
Trips per                                26 Units,
                                                                               Utah. At the time, the facility had 44
   Bed
               0.19             0.26
                                         30 Beds
                                                        6              8       beds, 42 of which were occupied. The
Trips per                                 18,000                               facility was employing 37 people at that
               0.39             0.48                    7              9
1,000 SF                                    SF                                 time.
                                                                               The study was conducted by The
                                                                               Brigham Young University Institute of
Traffic projections based on findings of 2018 study in Provo, UT               Transportation Engineers (BYU ITE) with
             Results of 2018                         Royale Estate
                                                                               support and review by Hales
              Provo Study                             Equivalent               Engineering.
              AM Peak          PM Peak               AM Peak         PM Peak
 Trips per                               26 Units,
               0.14              0.2                     4              6
    Bed                                  30 Beds
 Trips per                                18,000
               0.32             0.43                     6              8
 1,000 SF                                   SF
