Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jonathan Concidine
CC:  Date: September 8, 2022
Re: Academy Place Zoning Text Amendment Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Text Amendment that would affect approximately 15.2 acres located on the north side of Bangerter Highway, at approximately 409 W. 13490 S. (Exhibit B & C). The property is currently zoned CSD-DPMU . The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Text Amendment be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site as mixed use buildings. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.    The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.    The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3.    The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4.    The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5.    The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6.    The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices
For denial:
1.            The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.            The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3.            The proposed amendment is inappropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4.            The proposed amendment will create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5.            The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community detriment; and
6.            The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 9/2/2022 Cover Memo