NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA February 15, 2022 at 6:00 PM
1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020 Council Chambers 6:00 PM STUDY MEETING 1. Closed Session: By Motion The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205.
a 2. Report: Semi-Annual City Deposit and Investment Report Presentation of the Semi-Annual City Deposit and Investment Report for December 31, 2021.  Staff report by Bob Wylie a 3. Discussion: Trucks on Traverse Ridge Road - Scott Cooley a 4. Council/Manager Reports a 7:00 PM   BUSINESS MEETING 1. Call to Order 2. Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance 3. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 4. Consent Items a. Approval of February 1, 2022 City Council Meeting Minutes b. Approval of Resolution #22-04 A Resolution approving an interlocal cooperation agreement between Draper City and Salt Lake County for the re-imbursement of Tourism, Recreation, Cultural and Convention (TRCC) grant funds from Salt Lake County to Draper City as part of a large playground construction project at Draper City Park and authorizing the Mayor to sign the agreement. Staff: Rhett Ogden. c. Approval to Dispose of Property Held as Evidence Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 24-3-101, staff is requesting approval to dispose of property that has been held as evidence.  Staff: Bob Wylie.  5. Public Hearing: Approval of Resolution #22-08 A Resolution amending the adopted budget of Draper City for Fiscal Year 2021-2022.  Staff report by Bob Wylie. a 6. Action Item: Resolution #22-09 A Resolution adopting amended Planning Commission Bylaws and Rules of Procedure. Staff report by Mike Barker. a 7. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held February 15, 2022 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draperutah.gov , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News . Date Posted: February 11, 2022 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.