                               Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                      December 1, 2021

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: December 9, 2021

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Planning Manager/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov

Re:     Vista 600 West – Master Area Plan Amendment Request
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-0109-2021
        Applicant:        Howard Cooke, representing Gardner Company
        Project Location: 13645 South 600 West
        Current Zoning: TSD (Transit Station District) Zone
        Acreage:          15.24 Acres (Approximately 663,854 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Master Area Plan Amendment and Text
                          Amendment for the purpose of amending the approved Vista 600
                          West Master Area Plan and DCMC Section 9-14-110.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Master Area Plan (MAP) and Text Amendment
for approximately 15.24 acres located on the east side of 600 West, at approximately 13645
South 600 West (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned TSD. The applicant is requesting
that a MAP Amendment and Text Amendment be approved to eliminate the office and
hotel uses from the plan and increase the number of residential buildings.

The original MAP was approved by the City Council on March 6, 2018. This master plan
approved 250 residential units, 125,000 square feet of office space, and 10,000 square feet
of retail space. The MAP had a phase 2 option which would allow for a second 125,000
square foot office building and a parking structure.




Vista 600 West                                                 App. # TEXTMAP-0109-2021
Master Area Plan Amendment Request           1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Transit Station
District land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the TSD zoning classification (Exhibit D). According to
Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-14-010 the purpose of the TSD zone is to
“promote transit oriented and transit supportive development in areas that are generally located
near a commuter rail transit or rapid transit station and to maximize the flexibility of the
development approval process so as to permit such development in a manner that is responsive
to market demands and consistent with the purposes and objectives of the TSD.” The TSD zone
abuts the subject property on the north, west, and south. To the east is the CSD-DPMU
(Draper Point Mixed Use Commercial Special District) zone.

MAP Amendment. The MAP Amendment makes several changes to both the written and
visual aspects of the MAP (Exhibit E). References to hotel and office uses will be removed
from the text portion of the MAP. The residential portion will be modified to designate
standards for “Livable Residential Buildings” and “Residential Buildings”. The reason behind
this is to distinguish buildings with residential units in them and the accessory buildings
such as club house and maintenance structures. The accessory buildings to the residential



Vista 600 West                                                    App. # TEXTMAP-0109-2021
Master Area Plan Amendment Request             2
use will not be required to have as much architectural details, such as porches or
balconies.

The exhibits in the MAP will be replaced with new exhibits showing five residential
buildings and four retail buildings. Per the written portion of the text, the number of
dwelling units will be increased from 250 units to 305 units. The retail component will be
increased from 10,000 square feet to 20,000 square feet. While the proposed MAP exhibits
are included in the Exhibit E of this staff report, staff has included copies of the previously
approved MAP exhibits for reference in Exhibit F of this report.

Text Amendment. The Text Amendment will modify DCMC Section 9-14-110 and will replace
the TSD Sub-zone map for this area with an updated copy (Exhibit G). The applicant is not
proposing to modify the TSD Sub-zone categories. The entire property is within the TSD
Sub-zone 3 category. However, the TSD Sub-zone map includes the concept plan with it, so
a new TSD Sub-zone map must be included in the code.

Traffic Impact Study. The applicant has provided a traffic study. Due to size of the overall
report, the Executive Summary has been provided in Exhibit H for review. There are no
mitigation measures called for in the study. The Level of Service for the intersection with
the highest delay, 600 West and Vista Station Blvd, is currently C. The Level of Service at this
intersection will remain a C with the proposed development. It is anticipated that there will
be 250 AM peak hour trips and 343 PM peak hour trips.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a Master Area Plan request is found in
Section 9-14-060(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

        E. Criteria For Review: The planning commission and city council shall have discretion to
        disapprove a MAP with respect to the required elements of a MAP application only on the
        basis of:
            1) the failure to provide and comply with all of the required elements under this
            section unless waived pursuant to the provisions of this chapter;
            2) the failure of the master circulation plan to adequately serve the MAP area and
            areas surrounding the project;
            3) the failure of any item required by this section to provide for a community
            character substantially consistent with the purposes of the TSD, including the failure
            of the land use analysis to provide for at least twenty five percent (25%) commercial,
            retail, or office uses; or
            4) development standards or design guidelines that are inconsistent with high quality
            transit oriented design standards, including the use of high quality building materials.




Vista 600 West                                                       App. # TEXTMAP-0109-2021
Master Area Plan Amendment Request               3
A Text and Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation
to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in
Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

        2. Text Amendments:
             a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                 of the city's general plan;
             b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                 zoning ordinance;
             c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                 and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
             d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
                 of this title or the general plan;
             e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
                 and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                 represents an overall community benefit; and
             f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
                 professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Master Area Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Master Area Plan submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Master
Area Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Master
Area Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.




Vista 600 West                                                     App. # TEXTMAP-0109-2021
Master Area Plan Amendment Request              4
STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

Master Area Plan Amendment
The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.      The proposal complies with all of the required elements under DCMC Section
                9-14-060.
        2.      The master circulation plan adequately serves the MAP area and areas
                surrounding the project.
        3.      The MAP provides for a community character substantially consistent with
                the purposes of the TSD, including the provision for at least twenty five
                percent (25%) commercial, retail, or office uses.
        4.      The development standards and design guidelines are high quality transit
                oriented design standards, including the use of high quality building
                materials.

Text Amendment
The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                the city's general plan.
        2.      The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                zoning ordinance.
        3.      The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
        4.      The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
                part of this title or the general plan.
        5.      The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                represents an overall community benefit.
        6.      The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

Master Area Plan Amendment
The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.      The proposal does not comply with all of the required elements under DCMC
                Section 9-14-060.




Vista 600 West                                                     App. # TEXTMAP-0109-2021
Master Area Plan Amendment Request              5
        2.      The master circulation plan is not adequate to serve the MAP area and areas
                surrounding the project.
        3.      The MAP does not provide for a community character substantially
                consistent with the purposes of the TSD, including the provision for at least
                twenty five percent (25%) commercial, retail, or office uses.
        4.      The development standards and design guidelines are not high quality
                transit oriented design standards, including the use of high quality building
                materials.

Text Amendment
The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                policies of the city's general plan.
        2.      The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements
                of the zoning ordinance.
        3.      The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the
                request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the
                zoning ordinance.
        4.      The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part
                of this title or the general plan.
        5.      The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does
                not represent an overall community benefit.
        6.      The proposed text amendment does not implement best current,
                professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



MODEL MOTIONS

Master Area Plan Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the MAP Amendment, as requested by Howard Cooke, representing
Gardner Company for Vista 600 West Master Area Plan Amendment, application TEXTMAP-
0109-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated December 7, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the MAP Amendment, as requested by Howard Cooke, representing
Gardner Company for Vista 600 West Master Area Plan Amendment, application TEXTMAP-
0109-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated December 7, 2021 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:




Vista 600 West                                                   App. # TEXTMAP-0109-2021
Master Area Plan Amendment Request             6
        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the MAP Amendment, as requested by Howard Cooke, representing Gardner
Company for Vista 600 West Master Area Plan Amendment, application TEXTMAP-0109-
2021, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated December 7, 2021.

Text Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Howard Cooke, representing
Gardner Company for Vista 600 West Master Area Plan Amendment, application TEXTMAP-
0109-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated December 7, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Howard Cooke, representing
Gardner Company for Vista 600 West Master Area Plan Amendment, application TEXTMAP-
0109-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated December 7, 2021 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Howard Cooke, representing Gardner
Company for Vista 600 West Master Area Plan Amendment, application TEXTMAP-0109-
2021, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated December 7, 2021.




Vista 600 West                                               App. # TEXTMAP-0109-2021
Master Area Plan Amendment Request            7
                  DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                                                                                                       Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                       DN: C=US,
                    Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                                 E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
  Brien Maxfield
                    DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City, ou=PW -
                    Engineering,
                                                                                 Jennifer Jastremsky   O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City,

__________________________________                                               __________________________________
                    email=brien.maxfield@draperutah.gov, c=US                                          CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                    Date: 2021.12.08 09:53:46 -07'00'                                                  Date: 2021.12.07 18:25:11-07'00'


Draper City Public Works Department                                              Draper City Planning Division



                                                                                 Mike Barker
                                                                                                   Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                       Digitally signed by Don Buckley                                             Date: 2021.12.08 08:49:22
__________________________________
 Don Buckley                                                                     __________________________________
                       DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us, O=Draper City
                       Fire Department, OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                       Date: 2021.12.09 09:02:53-07'00'
                                                                                                   -07'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                                      Draper City Legal Counsel


                       Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                       DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov,

 Keith Collier         O=Draper City, OU=Building Official, CN=Keith

__________________________________
                       Collier
                       Date: 2021.12.08 06:20:14-07'00'



Draper City Building Division




Vista 600 West                                                                                 App. # TEXTMAP-0109-2021
Master Area Plan Amendment Request                                           8
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      As a note of the TIS, it does not require any improvements to public streets
               due to impact of the traffic change.
       2.      If a traffic signal is desired at the primary entrance, a warrant study is required
               to outline the warrants for the signal. This can be included in the area TIS.
               Signal warrant was not included in submitted TIS and therefore is not part of the
               text amendment update. The traffic signal will not be approved until warrant study
               is complete and traffic signal is warranted. A signal at the main entrance is not in
               the city’s master transportation plan and therefore not on the city’s CIP list.
       3.      Public sidewalk, minimum of five feet with park strip, is required along 600
               West. The provided submittal includes private improvements abutting the
               public sidewalk. Plan includes delineation of public versus private improvements.
       4.      Dedicated turn lanes are required on arterials, per DCMC 11-2-050. This will
               impact planned improvements on 600 West. Turn lanes will be a part of site
               plan / subdivision application(s) requirements.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      The Draper City Fire Department has no concerns on the request for the plan
               amendment. When the owner does go to develop. They need to be aware of
               some of the following requirements that will need to be met based on the
               exhibit submitted. The requirements below may change depending on the
               plans submitted for each building. These are just an overview of what to
               expect.
       2.      Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
               twenty-six (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of
               thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be required. The road must be designed
               and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The
               surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall
               have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a
               maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits
               being issued.
       3.      Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary
               Fire Department Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the
               Fire Department prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time
               during the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department
      Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.
4.    No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation
      and testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any
      combustible elements being received or delivered on building site.
5.    Fire Department Connection Location. The FDC shall be on the street side of
      the building and shall be located and arranged so that hose lines can be
      readily and conveniently attached to the inlets without interference from any
      nearby objects including but not limited to buildings, fences, posts, and
      landscaping.
6.    Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler
      shop drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at
      don.buckley@draperutah.gov . A complete set of plans, with manufacturer
      cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET
      level III or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to be a hydrant with-
      in a 100 feet of the FDC.) FDC is required to have KNOX Locking Caps. ALL
      FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE
      SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
7.    Standpipes may be required. This building may be required to have
      standpipes. This standpipe will be required to be pressure tested and a
      contractor certificate of completion will be required to be filled out.
8.    Fire alarm required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to
      be sent via email to the following to: don buckley at
      don.buckley@draperutah.gov . A complete set of plans, with manufacturer
      cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped by a nicet level iii
      or better in fire alarm systems. All fire alarm plans require 3rd party review
      prior to be submitted to the draper fire department. (may need to be a voice
      evacuation style alarm).
9.    Emergency responder radio coverage required. Emergency responder radio
      coverage shall be provided in accordance with the ifc.
10.   Emergency voice/alarm communication system may be required. An
      emergency voice/alarm communication system shall be provided in
      accordance with the ifc.
11.   Two-way communication will be required. As per section 1009.8 in the 2018
      ifc.
12.   Knox boxes required. Fire department “knox brand” lock box to be mounted
      to exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the
      exterior access to the fire sprinkler riser room. (at a height of 5 feet to the
      top of the box) lock box purchase can be arranged by the general contractor.
      See attached information form.
13.   2a-10bc fire extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a
      serviceable type meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to
      be located in a conspicuous location where they will be readily accessible and
      immediately available for use. Placed every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or
      not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not
      more than five (5) feet above the floor.
14.   Visible addressing required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
      address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
      property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
        EXHIBIT E
PROPOSED MASTER AREA PLAN
                                                             GARDNER COMPANY

                                             VISTA 600 WEST
The Vista 600 West project is located on the North East corner of the newly constructed intersection of Bangerter
Highway and 600 West. The parcel consists of approximately 15 acres of land (see Exhibit A) to be developed into
various uses such as office including, multi-family residential, and retail or a hotel.

The southern 7-10 acres may be used for one to two office buildings totaling approximately 250,000 square feet, a
potential parking garage, and between 7,500 and 15,000 square feet of retail. There are two phases to the office
building portion, Phase 1 is a single office building, and Phase 2 includes adding a second office building and a
parking structure. The construction of Phase 2 will only happen if there is a market demand. The remaining
northern 7-8 acres shall be used for apartment units (multiple buildings or one building, totaling approximately 250
units. Four to five acres of the development’s south western portion will be used for four retail pads, all of which
will have drive through capabilities. Altogether this will total close to 20,000 ft of retail. The south eastern portion
of the development will be used for two apartment buildings that cover 4-5 acres. The development’s remaining
northern 6-7 acres will also be used for multiple apartment buildings. Altogether the development will have 4-5
apartment buildings with a total unit count of approximately 305.

The proposed project fit within the area plan specifications for commercial office, multi-family and retail.

The entrance to the proposed development will be on the west side of the parcel on 600 West. The buildings will
be oriented to the west towards 600 West, South towards Bangerter Highway, and North to the curve of 600 west

The transportation systems within the MAP area are mostly in existence including collector and arterial streets
(Bangerter Highway, 600 West Street, Vista Station Blvd, Frontrunner Blvd, 200 West), and Frontrunner. The
development plan intends to connect the adjacent developments to the east with a private drive and pedestrian
connectivity.

Storm drainage and other utilities have been reviewed for capacity and are available for the site development.

Architectural and site design standards for the MAP are outlined in the Development Guidelines, including setback
and parking standards. The project will be designed in such a way as to promote compatibility between the MAP
area and adjoining properties. If applicable (based on market conditions), structured parking shall be designed to
be compatible with the aesthetic of the other (UTA) parking garage located within the TSD zone.

The estimated sequence and timing of development of the subject parcel will be in an estimated 3 phases (Office,
Retail and then Residential) with phase 1 starting in 2-5 years. Construction will commence when market
conditions permit. There are no major public improvements or off site infrastructure improvements or facilities
required or anticipated to be required in connection with the development of the MAP other than the standard
wet and dry utilities. Marketing will commence immediately on the retail portion of the development, with
construction beginning as soon as users are procured. The housing element will follow shortly after and follow a
phased approach with design for phase one beginning immediately upon MAP approval. There are no major public
improvements or off-site infrastructure improvements, or facilities required or anticipated to be required in
connection with the development of the MAP other than the standard wet and dry utilities.

The site plan and the proposed design guidelines have been reviewed and approved by the Architectural Control
Committee. See Exhibit B.

    VISTA 600 WEST                                                                                          Page 1
                                                       GARDNER COMPANY
A comprehensive sign program has included in the Development Guidelines.



Vista 600 West Architectural and Site Development Guidelines



Development Standards: Site development will occur in accordance with Chapter 9-14 Transit Station District
(TSD) of the Draper City Municipal Code and the following development standards.

Development A r e a s : Based on land use, each building shall comply with the following
development standards:

Office

   1. The architecture shall be the primary tool to create a strong sense of identity and place
      throughout the office district. All buildings will be articulated with use-appropriate scale,
      form, materials, and colors carefully considered and incorporated throughout the
      development phases.

   2. All building facades shall have the same character each utilizing the same materials, colors,
      features, forms, and design elements appropriate to the scale of the various building sizes.

   3. Building primary materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite metal panel, stone, EFIS,
      concrete, GFRC or tile.

   4.    More than one material shall be required on all building facades.

   5.    Buildings shall have a minimum of 40% high efficiency glazing.

   6.    Buildings shall use 50% of a primary material.

   7. Buildings shall have notable entry features which could include: An arch or canopy over entry
      doors, Colors or materials that highlight the entry, Entry doors and lobby that extend beyond
      or are recessed behind the main footprint of the building.

   8. All mechanical equipment shall be screened from view, either by enclosure, parapet wall, or
      line of sight.

   9.     Dumpsters shall be enclosed within a decorative masonry, split face CMU or honed CMU
         enclosure.

   10. The minimum front setback from right-of-way or exterior property lines shall be 10-feet.


   11. Building material placement and material colors shall be used to distinguish office building
      elevations from other office buildings in the immediate area, as approved by the ACC.


    VISTA 600 WEST                                                                               Page 2
                                                         GARDNER COMPANY
Retail

   1.    The minimum setback from right-of-way or exterior property lines shall be 5-feet.

   2.    Minimum building height shall be one-story.

   3.    More than one material shall be required on all building facades.

   4. Building primary materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite metal panel, stone, EFIS,
      concrete, GFRC, tile or other similar material as approved by the ACC.

   5. Dumpsters shall be enclosed within a decorative masonry, split face CMU or honed CMU
      enclosure.

Hotels

   1.    Minimum building height shall be three -stories.

   2.    More than one material shall be required on all building facades.

   3.    The minimum setback from right-of-way or exterior property line shall be 10-feet.

   4. Building primary materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite metal panel, stone, EFIS,
      concrete, GFRC or tile.

   5.    Buildings shall use 50% of a primary material.

   6. Buildings shall have notable entry features which could include: Arch or canopy, colors or
      materials, entry doors that extend beyond or are recessed beyond main footprint of the
      building.

   7. All mechanical equipment shall be screened from view, either by enclosure, parapet wall, or
      line of sight.

   8. Dumpsters shall be enclosed within a decorative masonry, split face CMU or honed CMU
      enclosure.

   9. Every hotel building elevation that faces a public street or internal main private street or
      public open space shall have either a porch, balcony, private patio or window.

Residential

   1. All Residential buildings (within a sub-phase) shall share the same unique architectural theme
      including, but not limited to, colors, materials, rooflines and entries. In addition, Livable
      Residential shall also share the same unique architectural theme in regard to rooflines and
      entries.

   2.    Building materials shall consist of at least three material types.

   3.    All Livable Residential will include There shall be a variety of floor plans/unit sizes within
    VISTA 600 WEST                                                                               Page 3
                                                           GARDNER COMPANY
       each project s u b - p h a s e area.

   4. Livable Residential Outdoor amenity space with seating and either a fire pit or a BBQ area,
      a tot lot, grass play area and an indoor exercise facility. A community clubhouse with an
      indoor and an outdoor amenity shall be provided for the entire residential project, other
      amenities to be determined by developer based on product type. Livable Residential-
      Stacked Flat amenities- A Clubhouse with a club room, exercise facility and pool with spa
      and one outdoor amenity space with a fire pit. Other amenities to be determined by
      developer based on product type.

   5. Each separate All Residential Bbuildings will be connected by internal walkways with shared use
      of outdoor common areas.

   6. Multi-family buildings shall have roofs clad in asphalt shingles, wood shingles, standing
      seam metal, a similar, or a combination of similar materials or shall have flat roofs.

   7. Every multi-family building Livable Residential building elevation that faces a public street or
      internal main private street or public open space, shall have either a porch, balcony, private
      patio or windows.

   8. Residential Building with aAny pitched roof covering the main body of the structure shall be
      hip style, monopitch or shed style, flat roofs or shall have symmetrical gables.

   9. Livable Residential rRoof forms shall be designed to emphasize the residential units when
      possible and shall denote building elements and functions, including primary pedestrian
      entrances.

   10. Residential Building setbacks are as follows: 20-feet from right-of-way or exterior property
       lines. Parking shall be allowed in setback areas along with garbage dumpsters.

   11. Livable Residential building design and orientation should consider exposure to sunlight to
       avoid energy inefficiencies.
   12. Prohibited materials: Vinyl and aluminum siding products are prohibited as wall materials.

   13. Livable Residential color scheme. The use of a single-color scheme, minimal detailing, or blank (or largely
       blank) walls is not permitted. The use of exterior stairs is discouraged.

   14. Livable Residential openings. Not less than twenty -five (25) percent of any front or rear
       building face shall be made up of window, opening (breezeways), garage door areas or man
       door areas. Not less than fifteen (15) percent of any side building face shal l be made up of
       windows or door areas unless an adjacent building within twenty (20) feet of that side face
       obscures the majority of that side face from public view. The front of the building is defined
       as the elevation which includes the primary entrance of the building.

   15. Pedestrian pathways shall be provided between access points, entryways, public gathering
       nodes, and parking areas.
Building material placement and material colors shall be used to distinguish residential building
   VISTA 600 WEST                                                                                        Page 4
                                                             GARDNER COMPANY
elevations from other residential buildings in the immediate area, as approved by the ACC.

Landscape

   1.     The landscaping shall define and enhance primary public entrances into each project.

   2. Ornamental landscaping shall be strategically designed to provide intimate outdoor spaces
      for public amenities and at pedestrian pathways and entrances.

   3. Landscape design shall promote water conservation by the use of water- wise, drip irrigation,
      and drought tolerant plant types.

   4.     A 10-foot landscaping buffer shall be required along the east property line adjacent to the existing hotel.

   4. The tree palette for each project shall be a combination of deciduous and non-deciduous
      trees and shade and ornamental trees.

   5.     The initial tree size shall have a minimum 2-inch caliper and be a minimum 6-ft high.

   6.    Landscaping berms measuring 3-feet in height will be used around the perimeter of the office
        park, when possible, to help minimize the visual impact of the parking field.

   6. Parking to be screened with landscaping when possible, including the proposed parking
      structure.

   7.     Minimum 5’ of landscaping is required around perimeter of the entire project.

   8. Public Use Space (private or public): Public Use Space maybe in the form of landscape
      areas, landscape areas with walkways, hardscape areas, pool deck/pool/spa areas, areas
      with a change in hardscape such as color/material changes, areas with lighting suc h as
      bollards or pole lighting, and the 600 west pedestrian zone (landscaping, 4’ soft path, 58’
      concrete sidewalk and 4’ park strip). See Exhibit C.

   9. All multiple-family projects shall submit a landscaping plan in accordance with Chapter 23,
      “Landscaping and Screening,” of this title unless otherwise specified within the se
      development guidelines.

   10. Landscaping shall be used as a land use buffer where appropriate, especially between the
       parking structure and the adjacent hotel .

   11. Detention basins shall be adequately landscaped and maintained.

   12. Drought tolerant landscaping is highly encouraged.
Parking

   1.     The parking for office buildings shall be a minimum of 3 stalls and per 1,000 square feet.

   1.     The parking for retail buildings shall be a minimum of 1.87 stalls per 1,000 square feet.

   VISTA 600 WEST                                                                                           Page 5
                                                      GARDNER COMPANY
   2.   Parking stalls shall be 18-feet in length and 9-feet in width.

   3. Landscape islands will measure 8-feet in width and 18-feet in length shall be placed at either
      end of parking rows longer than 16 stalls.

   4.   The parking for Hotels shall be a minimum of .75 stall per room.

   4. The parking for residential buildings shall be a minimum of 1.68 stalls per dwelling unit.
      Driveways and garages shall count toward s total parking requirements.

   5.   Parking to be screened with landscaping when possible.

   6. Parking Structures will be allowed (if needed as determined by the developer) as part of the
      project to accommodate higher density land uses, otherwise surface parking will be the
      main form of parking for all land uses.

               -Parking structures shall include the use of the same or consistent building façade
               materials as the retail and residential office building(s) and be designed as an
               integral component of the site plan and architectural theme. Acceptable
               complementary materials added to the concrete parking structure are those that are
               similar in durability, color and/or appearance of the residential and retail office
               building facades.

               -Parking structures shall follow best CPTED practices and provide for well-lit and
               visible pedestrian corridors, visible parking areas, security devices, and natural
               surveillance both inside and outside of the structure.

               -Landscaping and architectural materials, forms, and scale shall be used to enhance
               the parking structure.
               -Pedestrian pathways shall connect the pedestrian exit from the parking structure to
               the buildings it serves.
               -When adjacent to a public right -of-way, the building design shall include human
               scale detailing to enhance the relationship with the pedestrian.

   7. Shared parking is encouraged and can be double counted for the differing land uses, such as
      office retail and residential.

Lighting

   1.    Parking lot lighting in commercial areas shall provide adequate illumination at a minimum
        .5 foot-candles and max of 4 foot-candles.

   2.   Parking lot lighting in commercial areas shall utilize cutoff type fixtures.

   3.   Parking lot lighting in commercial areas shall not be taller than 30-feet.

   4.    All residential areas shall submit a lighting plan that illustrates lighting accommodation for
        automobile and pedestrian networks.
   VISTA 600 WEST                                                                             Page 6
                                                          GARDNER COMPANY
   5. Exterior lighting along streets shall be pedestrian in scale.

   6. Low level bollard lighting is encouraged for illumination of internal pedestrian pathways.

Signage
        The following standards are for all uses within the Vista 600 West MAP.

   1. Each monument sign shall have a uniform, ar chitecturally compatible design, with faces not
      larger than one hundred (100) square feet. Monument signs shall not exceed seven feet
      (7') in height and fourteen feet (14') in width.

   2. Wall signs may be installed by individual businesses/buildings on freestanding and in -line
      single-/multi-tenant buildings and on hotels. Signs shall have individually illuminated
      letters or decorative sign cabinets. Where sign cabinets are utilized, they shall be b uilt into
      the architectural fascia.

   3. Suspended, Blade Type Project Signs: Suspended or blade type projecting signs are allowed
      provided they are not more than fifty (50) square feet of sign area. Each elevation will be
      allowed one suspended or blade type s ign. Suspended or blade type signs may be provided
      along pedestrian walkways and shall maintain a minimum clearance of seven feet (7') above
      the pavement.

   4. Tower Signs: One tower sign shall be allowed for each hotel. The sign may be a multi -
      tenant sign and shall be no taller than forty feet (40') with a maximum sign area of two
      hundred (200) square feet.

   4. The location of all signs must be approved by the City Engineer to ensure clearance of sight
      distance requirements.

   5.   All monument and tower signs shall be located outside of any public utility easement.

Commercial, Office and Retail Uses: Commercial, office and rRetail uses shall be allowed the
following:

   1. One monument sign may be allowed is allowed per office building and one monument sign
      is allowed at the entrance to each office retail district, depending on the approval from the
      architectural committee.

   2. Wall signs shall be allowed for every one linear foot of building length, two (2) square feet
      of wall signage on hotel, office and retail buildings.

   3. Wayfinding signs shall be allowed in the project. The overall height shall not exceed eight
      feet (8') and the area of the sign shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet.

   4.   Flags or banners placed on light poles shall be at least seven feet (7') above the pavement.

Residential Uses: Each residential use shall be allowed the following signage:

   1.   Two (2) freestanding monument signs per the standards outlined above.
   VISTA 600 WEST                                                                           Page 7
                                                     GARDNER COMPANY
   2.    Portable banner signs, with a maximum area of fifty (50) square feet shall be allowed in
        each residential project.

   3.   Flags and A-frame signs shall be allowed during lease times for each residential project.

   4.    Wall signs are permitted as follows: for every one (1) linear foot of building length, two (2)
        square feet of wall signage shall be allowed on each building elevation.

   5. Electronic message signs are permitted on any residential building. All electronic message
      signs shall comply with subsection below.

Electronic message signs are permitted on any hotel, office or retail buildings. Tower signs for
hotels may also be electronic message signs. All electronic message signs shall comply with
subsection below.

   1. Full color messages or images only and the use of single colored text and images is
      prohibited.

   2. Each message/advertisement displayed on an E MC shall remain static for a minimum of
      eight (8) seconds. Animation, flashing, starburst or other similar frame effects are
      prohibited.

Pixel pitch shall be as follows:

   1.    EMC’s within the MAP, but not directed toward Bangerter Highway may shall have a tru e
        pixel pitch between one millimeter (1 mm) and ten millimeters (10 mm) due to closer
        proximity of travelers to signs.

   2.    EMC’s directed toward Bangerter Highway shall have a true pixel pitch between one
        millimeter (1 mm) and sixteen millimeters (16 mm) due to higher speeds and distance
        between travelers and signs.

   3.    No EMC shall utilize a white or solid colored background for greater than or equal to fifty
        percent (50%) of the sign area.

   4.   All EMC’s are required to comply with the following LED sign illuminati on requirements:

        -All permitted EMC’s shall be equipped with a sensor or other device that automatically
        determines the ambient illumination and is programmed to automatically dim according to
        ambient light conditions, or that can be adjusted to comply wit h the 0.3 foot-candle
        measurements. In addition, EMCs must have a default mechanism to turn off the sign
        within twenty four (24) hours of a reported malfunction.

        -Sign illumination levels for EMC’s shall never, at maximum display intensity, exceed 0.3
        foot-candle over ambient lighting conditions when measured at the distance based on the
        formula of square root of area of sign times one hundred (100). Light cutoff devices shall
        minimize light above the sign.

        -The illuminance of an EMC shall be measured wit h an illuminance meter set to measure
    VISTA 600 WEST                                                                            Page 8
                                               GARDNER COMPANY
   foot-candles accurate to at least two (2) decimals. Illuminance shall be measured with the
   EMC off, and again with the EMC displaying a white image. All measurements shall be taken
   perpendicular to the face of the EM C at the distance determined by the total square
   footage of the EMC as set forth in this subsection.

   -The applicant shall submit a photometric matrix (showing the dispersal in foot -candles)
   showing that the sign meets all the requirements of this code.

   -The owner shall be required to submit written certification from the sign manufacturer
   that the light intensity shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in the above table
   and photocell dimming prior to the issuance of a sign permit.




VISTA 600 WEST                                                                        Page 9
                         Retail
                       5,000 SF


                                    Retail
                                  5,000 SF

                                                     Retail
        Retail
                                                   5,000 SF




                                                                          Residential




                                                               Club
                 Residential                                  House

                                         Residential



                                                                      Residential       Residential



                                                                                                       MAINT.
                                                                                                      GARAGE




VISTA 11 SITE - OPEN SPACE
                                                                    RETAIL      = 189,946 SF
                                                                    RESIDENTIAL = 473, 739 SF

                                                                    TOTAL        = 663,685 SF




     Retail
     TSD-3
     2.34 acres              Retail
     101,902 S.F.            TSD-3
                             2.02 acres
                             88,044 S.F.




                                           Residential
                    Residential            TSD-3
                    TSD-3                  6.13 acres
                    4.75 acres             266,834 S.F.
                    206,905 S.F.
                                                           MAINT.
                                                          GARAGE




VISTA 11 SITE - LAND USE
  4' SOFT PATH                    Retail
                                5,000 SF
                                                      ENHANCED
                                                      LANDSCAPING
                                             Retail
                                           5,000 SF

                                                              Retail
                 Retail
                                                            5,000 SF




                                                                                   Residential




                                                                        Club
                          Residential                                  House

                                                  Residential



                                                                               Residential       Residential


                                                                                                               4' SOFT PATH

                                                                                                                MAINT.
                                                                                                               GARAGE




VISTA 11 SITE
                                      SE
        ENHANCED
                                         CO
        LANDSCAPING AND
        MONUMENT SIGN                       ND
                                       EN      AR
                                          TR      Y
                                             Y

                                                                       PR
                             Retail                                       IMA
                           5,000 SF                                    EN     RY
                                                                          TR
                                                                             Y
                                             Retail
                                           5,000 SF

                                                              Retail                       ENHANCED
                                                                                           LANDSCAPING AND
        Retail
                                                            5,000 SF                       MONUMENT SIGN




                                                                                    Residential




                                                                         Club
                     Residential                                        House

                                                  Residential



                                                                                Residential                  Residential



                                                                                                                            MAINT.
                                                                                                                           GARAGE




                                                                                     ENHANCED
                                                                                     LANDSCAPING



                                                                 SECONDARY
                                                                   ENTRY




VISTA 11 SITE - ENTRY POINTS
                                                                                                                Pedestrian Circulation
                                                                                                                Perimeter Path / Loop Trail




                         Retail
                       5,000 SF


                                    Retail
                                  5,000 SF

                                                     Retail
        Retail
                                                   5,000 SF




                                                                          Residential




                                                               Club
                 Residential                                  House

                                         Residential



                                                                      Residential       Residential



                                                                                                       MAINT.
                                                                                                      GARAGE




VISTA 11 SITE - PEDESTRIAN CIRCULATION
                                   Open Space




                              MAINT.
                             GARAGE




VISTA 11 SITE - OPEN SPACE
                SE
                  CO
                     ND
                 EN     AR
                    TR     Y
                       Y

                                                   PR
                                                      IMA
                                                   EN     RY
                                                      TR
                                                         Y




                                    Cross Access
                                                                MAINT.
                                                               GARAGE




                               SECONDARY
                                 ENTRY




VISTA 11 SITE - VEHICULAR NETWORK
      EXHIBIT F
APPROVED MAP EXHIBITS
Exhibit C
                    VI STA 600 WEST
S I T E   P L A N   |   0 9   J A N UA RY   20 1 8
    EXHIBIT G
LEGISLATIVE DRAFT
                                  Legislative Draft

                 Vista 600 West Master Area Plan and Text Amendment



9-14-110: STREET AND ALLEY CROSS SECTIONS:

EXHIBIT 9-14-1
                EXHIBIT H
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Gardner Company-Draper City                                  Vista 11 Traffic Impact Study



Introduction and Summary
PURPOSE OF REPORT AND STUDY OBJECTIVES
The purpose of this Traffic Impact Study (TIS) is to identify the traffic impacts for the proposed
development, located in Draper City, Utah. The study objectives are as follows: 1) define the study
intersections, 2) estimate trip generation, 3) estimate trip distribution for the site before and after
development, 4) analyze AM and PM peak traffic conditions with and without the project traffic in 2026,
and 5) recommend improvements to mitigate traffic impacts if necessary.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
SITE LOCATION AND STUDY AREA – The location of the project development site is on the
northeast corner of the 600 West / Bangerter Highway intersection in Draper City, Utah (see Figure 1).
The proposed development is bordered by Bangerter Highway on the south side of the development and
600 West on the west and north sides of the development. This study will address the following
intersections near the study area.
    •   Bangerter Highway & 600 West
    •   600 West & Vista Station Boulevard

DEVELOPMENT DESCRIPTION – The development will consist of 300 Multifamily homes, 15,000
square feet of retail space, and a fuel station proposed to have 12 fueling stalls. It is anticipated the
development will be fully built in the year 2026.

PRINCIPAL FINDINGS – It is anticipated that the development will not cause the study intersections
to operate at an unacceptable Level of Service (LOS).

CONCLUSIONS & RECOMMENDATIONS
    1. Existing Conditions: - All study intersections operate at an acceptable LOS. The intersection with
       the highest delay is 600 West & Vista Station Boulevard, with a LOS C and an intersection delay of
       17.9 seconds in the PM. The highest delay in the AM is 600 West & Vista Station Boulevard, with
       LOS C and an intersection delay of 14.1 seconds. No recommended mitigations at this time.
    2. The proposed development is estimated to generate approximately 4,964 new external daily trips,
       with 250 during the AM peak and 343 during the PM peak. The pass-by adjustment for the AM &
       PM peak hour is 62% and 56%, respectively.
    3. Existing Plus Project Conditions: - All intersections function at an acceptable LOS. The study
       intersection with the highest delay is 600 West & North Project Access, with LOS C and an
       intersection delay of 22.7 seconds during the AM peak hour. The highest delay in the PM is 600
       West & Vista Station Boulevard, with a LOS C and an intersection delay of 22.2 seconds. No
       recommended mitigations at this time.

                                                                                             1|Page
Prepared by: Horrocks Engineers
Gardner Company-Draper City                                    Vista 11 Traffic Impact Study



    4. 2026 Background Conditions: - Using the historical growth from UDOT station 035-5695, a 15%
       growth (3% each year) rate was applied to project 2021 volumes to 2026. All study intersections
       function at an acceptable LOS. The intersection with the highest delay is 600 West & Vista Station
       Boulevard with LOS C and an intersection delay of 22.0 seconds during the PM peak hour. The
       highest delay in the AM is 600 West & Vista Station Boulevard, with a LOS C and an intersection
       delay of 15.8 seconds. No recommended mitigations at this time.
    5. 2026 Background Plus Project Conditions: - After adding project traffic to the 2026 Background
       scenario to create the 2026 Background Plus Project scenario, all intersections operate at an
       acceptable LOS. The 600 West & Vista Station Boulevard intersection delay changed from LOS C
       to LOS D compared to the 2026 Background scenario. The intersection with the highest delay is
       600 West & Vista Station Boulevard, with LOS D and an intersection delay of 28.6 seconds during
       the PM peak hour. The highest delay in the AM is 600 West & North Project Access, with LOS C
       and an intersection delay of 26.3 seconds. No recommended mitigations at this time.

Proposed Development
SITE LOCATION
The location for the development is on a vacant lot in Draper, Utah (see Figure 1); it is on the northeast
side of the Bangerter Highway and 600 West intersection.

                                        Figure 1: Project Location




                                                                                                2|Page
Prepared by: Horrocks Engineers
Gardner Company-Draper City                                                   Vista 11 Traffic Impact Study



SITE PLAN AND PREFERRED ACCESS
The site will have three accesses – two on the west side of the project onto 600 West and one on the east
side of the project leading into the adjacent commercial property parking lot. The site has one partial
access on the south side of the project from 600 West that is a right turn in and right turn out (RIRO). The
primary access is full access and is on the north side of the project on 600 West to the north of the partial
access. Figure 2 shows the proposed site plan.

The south access on 600 West is recommended to be a dedicated right turn lane into the project. This
access should be 660 feet away from the crosswalk on Bangerter Highway westbound exit ramp
(approximately where the median on 600 West currently terminates). The median on 600 West should be
extended an additional 150 feet to the north of the new intersection to prevent traffic from making a left
turn into or out of this access. This dedicated right turn lane should meet the minimum AASHTO
requirements of at least 100 feet for storage, 265 feet for deceleration (based upon 40 MPH), and 180
feet for tapering (at a 15:1 ratio), for a total length of 545 feet (AASHTO, 2018) . This southwest access
will begin after traffic is forced to merge from the Bangerter Highway off ramp, so the taper length is
eliminated for a total length of 365 feet for this turn pocket is recommended. This turn pocket lane must
be a minimum of 10 feet wide, a 12 foot wide lane is preferable.

The north access from 600 West is recommended to have a dedicated left turn lane into the project. This
dedicated left turn lane should replace the existing two-way left-turn lane (TWLTL) on 600 West and
should have the same length requirements as the southwest access lane of 365 feet. Both of these access
points have an optional acceleration lane that could be used for traffic leaving the project, however
pedestrian traffic is a safety consideration when using a right turn acceleration lane.

The recommendations for the south project access are to have dedicated right turn in and right turn out
(RIRO) lanes, and to extend the median 150 feet past the project access. The north access is recommended
to be full access, with a stop control on the westbound leg of the access point. This north access should
have dedicated left and right turn lanes for leaving the project, a left turn lane for entering the project
from southbound 600 West, and a shared thru-right for entering the project from northbound 600 West.
Source: AASHTO A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets “The Green Book” (2018), pages 98-99




                                                                                                           3|Page
Prepared by: Horrocks Engineers
