Development Review Committee
1020 East Pioneer Road
Draper, UT 84020
07/15/2022

To:        Draper City Planning Commission
           Business Date: August 28, 2022

From:      Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jonathan Concidine, Planner
           Planning Division
           Community Development Department
           801-576-6522, j.concidine@draperutah.gov

Re:  Avery Townhomes – Land Use & Zoning Map Amendments Request
     Application No.:   TEXTMAP-139-2022 & TEXTMAP-142-2022
     Applicant:        Troy Dana, representing Draper Office Associates, LLC
     Project Location: Approximately 638 E. 12225 S.
     Current Zoning:   OR (Office/Residential) Zone
     Acreage:          2.44 Acres (Approximately 106,000 ft2)
     Request:          Request for approval of Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments in
                       the OR (Office/Residential) zone regarding a proposed change to the
                       Land Use designation from Neighborhood Commercial to High
                       Density Residential and the zoning to RM2 (Multi-Family Residential,
                       up to 12 du/ac).

BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of Land Use & Zoning Map Amendments for
approximately 2.44 acres located between 12300 S. and 12220 S. on the north and south, and
Placer St. and 670 E. on the east and west, at approximately 638 E. 12225 S. (Exhibits C & D).
The property is currently zoned OR. The applicant is requesting that Land Use & Zoning Map
Amendments be approved to allow for the development of four townhomes units in addition to
the 17 that have been previously approved.

The property is subdivided into lots on the plat named The Avery Townhomes. Previously it was
part of the Victoria Woods subdivision. The Avery Townhomes plat was approved by the
Planning Commission on December 10, 2020.

ANALYSIS

Existing General Plan and Zoning

Table 1     General Plan and Zoning Designations     Exhibit
Existing Land Use    Neighborhood Commercial     Exhibit E
Current Zoning       OR                          Exhibit F
Proposed Use         Multi-Family Residential
Adjacent Zoning
  East               OR
  West               CSD-DD (Day Dairy Commercial Special District)
  North              OR , RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 sq ft min. lots), RA2
                     (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 sq ft min. lots), R3 (Single Family
                     Residential, 13,000 sq ft min. lots)
  South              CC (Community Commercial)

The Neighborhood Commercial land use designation is characterized as follows:

Neighborhood Commercial — LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS:
 - Small-scale commercial land uses that serve local residents in adjacent neighborhoods
 - Minimal impact in predominantly residential areas
 - Well-landscaped street frontages
 - Limited traffic access points and pedestrian access from surrounding residential areas
 - Don't overcrowd commercial lots; i.e., require adequate setback and landscape buffers
 - Screened parking and adequate ingress and egress to parking areas
 - Adequate drainage
 - Low noise standards
LAND USE MIX:
 - Small-scale commercial
 - Planned retail
 - Office
COMPATIBLE ZONING:
 - Neighborhood Commercial (CN)
 - Institutional Care (IC)
 - Commercial Services (CS)
LOCATION:
 - Adjacent to neighborhood
 - Along local roads

According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the OR zone is
"A district composed of certain land and structures used primarily to provide administrative,
clerical, and professional offices, of a residential scale and character, to serve nearby residential
and commercial areas, as well as the city as a whole. These uses are characterized by low
volume, direct daily customer contact. This district also provides for accessory medium-high
density residential (0 to 12 du/ac). This district is designed to be a transitional zone, and should
be used to buffer low density residential uses from more intense land uses, districts, and
heavily traveled transportation routes. The property development standards, while strict in
order to protect adjacent low density residential uses, are designed to be flexible enough to
allow experimentation in office and housing design, and to allow housing constructed within this
district to incorporate its own protection from more intense adjacent uses."

Proposed General Plan and Zoning

The applicant proposes a change to the Land Use Map of the General Plan from Neighborhood
Commercial to the High Density Residential land use designation for the subject property.

The High Density Residential land use designation is characterized as follows:

Residential High Density — LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS:
 - Abundant landscaping
 - Architectural variation between units and/or buildings, designed to look like houses, not boxes
 - Avoid walls and fences, except for screening and buffering with neighboring developments
LAND USE MIX:
 Primary:                    Secondary:
 - Patio homes               - Parks
 - Townhouses                - Churches
 - Multifamily housing       - Schools
                             - Open Space
DENSITY:
 - Density range: 8-12 dwelling units per acre
COMPATIBLE ZONING:
 - Institutional care (IC)
 - Multiple-family Residential (RM1)
 - Multiple-family Residential (RM2)
 - Master Planned Community (MPC)
LOCATION:
 - Near retail centers, offices, or other compatible uses
 - Near major transit investment corridors
OTHER CRITERIA:
 - Care must be taken to minimize impacts on other residential areas to provide adequate
   circulation to accommodate the traffic demands
 - The developer must demonstrate that the project provides a quality living environment

The applicant is proposing a change in the zoning map from OR to RM2. According to DCMC
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RM2 zone is to "permit well designed apartments,
townhomes, twin homes, and condominiums at relatively high densities that are appropriately
buffered from and compatible with surrounding land uses."

Table 2               Existing Zoning                     Proposed Zoning
Development Standards  OR (Office/Residential)             RM2 (Multi-family Residential)
Maximum Density        12 du/ac                            12 du/ac
                       Residential uses may not take up
                       >49% of land on site
Uses Allowed           Commercial, Multi-family            Multi-family Residential
                       Residential (secondary)
Maximum Height         24 feet                             35 feet
Approved Development
Density                7 du/ac                             N/A

Criteria for Approval

Zoning Map Amendment 9-5-060(E)
A Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council and is
not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a recommendation to the City Council,
the Planning Commission should consider the following factors in Section 9-5-060(E) of the
DCMC:

1. Map Amendments:
   a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
      city's general plan;
   b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
      development in the vicinity of the subject property;
   c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
      overlay zone;
   d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent property; and
   e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including,
      but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection,
      schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse
      collection.

Land Use Map Amendments
The Land Use Map amendment request falls under DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) because the Land
Use Map is part of Draper City's General Plan. That section lists the following criteria for a
General Plan amendment as:

Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
10-9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative body, shall follow the
procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-060(D)." That section is noted as
follows:

D. Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and processed as
   provided in this subsection:
   1. A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning administrator in a
      form established by the administrator along with any fee established by the city's schedule
      of fees. The application shall include at least the following information:
      a. The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the applicant's agent, if any.
      b. The name and address of every person or company the applicant represents.
      c. The requested amendment and reasons supporting the request.
      d. If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning map, the application shall include:
         (1) An accurate property map showing present and proposed zoning classifications;
         (2) All abutting properties showing present zoning classifications; and
         (3) An accurate legal description and an approximate common address of the area proposed
             to be rezoned.
      e. If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of this title, the application shall
         include chapter and section references and a draft of the proposed text.
   2. After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning administrator shall prepare a
      staff report evaluating the application.
   3. The planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the application as
      provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this chapter. Following the public meeting, the
      planning commission shall recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of
      the proposed amendment and shall submit its recommendation to the city council for review
      and decision.
   4. The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the application as provided in
      sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this chapter. Following the public hearing, the city council
      may approve, approve with modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.

REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
Land Use & Zoning Map Amendments submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Land Use & Zoning Map Amendments submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Land Use &
Zoning Map Amendments submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment,
and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial,
as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval are as follows:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the city's
   general plan.
2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in
   the vicinity of the subject property.
3. The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4. The proposed amendment should not adversely affect adjacent property.
5. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to,
   roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater
   drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are adequate.
6. The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Sections 9-2-020(F) and 9-5-060(D).

The findings for denial are as follows:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
   general plan.
2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development
   in the vicinity of the subject property.
3. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4. The proposed amendment is likely to adversely affect adjacent property.
5. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to,
   roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater
   drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are inadequate.
6. The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Sections 9-2-020(F) and
   9-5-060(D).

MODEL MOTIONS

Land Use Map Amendment
I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the Avery Townhomes
Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Troy Dana, representing Draper Office Associates,
LLC, application TEXTMAP-142-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated August 15, 2022.

I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the Avery Townhomes
Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Troy Dana, representing Draper Office Associates,
LLC, application TEXTMAP-142-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated August 15, 2022 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:
   1. List any additional findings and conditions…

I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for the Avery Townhomes
Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Troy Dana, representing Draper Office Associates,
LLC, application TEXTMAP-142-2022, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated
August 15, 2022.

Zoning Map Amendment
I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the Avery Townhomes
Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Troy Dana, representing Draper Office Associates, LLC,
application TEXTMAP-139-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated August 15, 2022.

I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the Avery Townhomes
Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Troy Dana, representing Draper Office Associates, LLC,
application TEXTMAP-139-2022, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated August 15, 2022 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:
   1. List any additional findings and conditions…

I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for the Avery Townhomes
Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Troy Dana, representing Draper Office Associates, LLC,
application TEXTMAP-139-2022, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated
August 15, 2022.

DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff report
has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for review by the
Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

Brien Maxfield — Draper City Public Works Department (digitally signed 2022.07.19)
Don Buckley — Draper City Fire Department (digitally signed 2022.07.20)
Keith Collier — Draper City Building Division (digitally signed 2022.07.19)
Jennifer Jastremsky — Draper City Planning Division (digitally signed 2022.07.19)
Mike Barker — Draper City Legal Counsel (digitally signed 2022.07.19)

EXHIBIT A
DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR CONDITIONS.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review

Public Works Department — Engineering Division Memorandum
To:                        Jonathan Concidine / Planning
Civil Engineer reviewed by: Brien Maxfield / Engineering
Date:                      July 7, 2022
Subject:                   Avery Townhomes – (TEXTMAP-139-2022 & TEXTMAP-142-2022)
                           – Zoning Map and Land Use Map Amendments

We have reviewed the subject zone map amendment application, proposing approximately two
acres to be zoned from OR to RM2 in accordance with the provisions of Section 9-5-060(E) of the
Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC). We speak primarily to the adequacy of facilities and services
intended to serve the subject property. In making an amendment, the City Council should
consider the following factors. Accordingly, the following comments are recommended for your
consideration:

1. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including but not
   limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm
   water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse collection;

   Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities intended to serve
   this property.

   a. The change in zone from office/residential (OR) to multifamily zone (RM2) represents an
      increase in the density of multifamily residential units with the corresponding increase in
      traffic. The proposed zone could have up to twenty-one multifamily residential units
      (townhomes), up from seventeen residential units. Each unit contributes up to eight daily trips
      plus one peak hour trip per unit, based on industry traffic generation tables. Any increase in
      traffic would be limited to 12200 South, a minor residential collector in that area and 12300
      South, an arterial with significant existing traffic. This proposed rezone is under the threshold
      required to automatically trigger a traffic impact study, where the site is not five acres and will
      not generate 100 peak hour trips.
   b. Connectivity with the subject parcel to a public right-of-way is either 12200 South or 12300
      South. There are existing accesses to each street and would not be modified by any site
      development. Access locations are be required to meet Draper City Standards as outlined in our
      Master Transportation Plan.
   c. There are existing storm drainage facilities at the site. Any future site drainage will be required
      to be addressed with any subdivision or site plan application, and shall comply with the
      provisions of the development requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.
   d. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any subdivision
      application will require a commitment to serve from the Sewer District that facilities are
      adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.
   e. Drinking water is provided by WaterPro. Any future subdivision application will require a
      commitment to serve from WaterPro that facilities are adequate to provide service for the any
      change of uses.

Accordingly, we will provide comments relative to the potential construction activities when the
appropriate application is received. Thank you for the opportunity to review the Zone Amendment
Request.

[Watermark on Engineering review pages: "ZONE MAP AMENDMENT"]
[File reference: N:\Engineering\Development\Current\Avery Townhomes - 644 E 12200 S\TEXTMAP-139&142-2022\Avery Townhomes - Zone Change.docx]

EXHIBIT B
LEGAL DESCRIPTION

A portion of the SE 1/4 of Section 30, Township 3 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and
Meridian, more particularly described as follows:

Beginning at the Northwest Corner of MIDAS CREEK COMMERCIAL CONDOMINIUMS PHASE 1,
according to the Official Plat thereof on file in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder,
located S00°02'47"W along the Section line 543.17 feet and West 282.80 feet from the East 1/4
Corner of Section 30, T3S, R1E, SLB&M; thence South along said plat 183.79 feet; thence
S89°45'00"W 280.64 feet to a point on a boundary line agreement recorded as Entry No.
11281758 of the Official Records of Salt Lake County; thence along said agreement the
following 5 (five) courses: 1) N00°15'00"W 150.00 feet; 2) S89°45'00"W 100.00 feet; 3)
S00°46'08"W 306.90 feet; 4) S00°24'40"W 54.07 feet; 5) S33°25'14"E 42.43 feet to the North
line of 12300 South Street; thence S89°45'00"W along said street 0.69 feet; thence
S59°32'40"W along said street 46.82 feet; thence N32°44'52"W 42.10 feet; thence
N15°11'17"W 19.38 feet; thence N00°05'04"E 57.46 feet; thence N88°34'10"W 1.50 feet to a
point on the Easterly line of THE PARC AT DAY DAIRY SUBDIVISION – AMENDMENT No. 3,
according to the Official Plat thereof on file in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder;
thence N00°46'01"E along said plat 525.45 feet to the South line of 12200 South Street; thence
N89°56'35"E along said street 163.52 feet; thence S00°04'30"W 181.63 feet; thence East
262.43 feet to the point of beginning. Contains 2.44 acres more or less.

EXHIBIT C — VICINITY MAP
[Figure: Avery Townhomes Rezone Vicinity Map — city-scale aerial/parcel map, subject site highlighted; scale bar 0–1.2 miles.]

EXHIBIT D — AERIAL MAP
[Figure: Avery Townhomes Rezone Aerial Map — aerial photo with the subject parcel outlined in red between 12200 S and 12300 S near Placer St / 600 E; scale bar 0–320 feet.]

EXHIBIT E — LAND USE MAP
[Figure: Avery Townhomes Rezone Land Use Map — subject site shown against surrounding designations: Residential Low/Medium Density, Residential Medium Density, Residential High Density, Neighborhood Commercial, Commercial Special District, Office Service; scale bar 0–350 feet.]

EXHIBIT F — ZONING MAP
[Figure: Avery Townhomes Rezone Zoning Map — surrounding zones labeled RA1, RA2, R3, OR, CC, CN, CS, CSD-DD; subject site outlined; scale bar 0–350 feet.]

EXHIBIT G
SUBDIVISION PLAT

[Figure: THE AVERY TOWNHOMES — Located in the SE 1/4 of Section 30, T3S, R1E, Salt Lake Base &
Meridian, Draper City, Salt Lake County, Utah. Recorded subdivision plat, 2 sheets, prepared by
Focus Engineering & Surveying; Owner/Developer: Draper Office Associates, Sandy, UT 84070.
Includes owner's dedication, boundary description, surveyor's certificate, and City acceptance
blocks (Planning Commission, Engineer, City Attorney, City Mayor, County Health Department,
South Valley Sewer District, Draper Irrigation Company). 605 East shown as a private road.
Sheet 1 of 2 and Sheet 2 of 2 — engineering line-work drawings, lot/unit layout for The Avery
Townhomes. Detailed dimension text on the plat sheets is not fully legible at scanned resolution.]
