Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: February 24, 2022
Re: Sole @ Rockwell Text Amendment Comments: This application is a request for approval of a zoning text amendment for approximately 3.9 acres located at northeast corner of Minuteman Drive and Marion Vista Drive at approximately 356 W. Marion Vista Drive.  The property is currently zoned MARF.  The applicant is requesting a zoning text amendment to modify the parking and landscaped standards for the zone and specifically multi-family uses.
The subject property is vacant and has never been developed.  The site was rezoned with the MARF designation in August, 2019.  A subsequent minor subdivision created two lots within the boundaries of the MARF zone.  The proposed text amendment affects the southern parcel or the residential development within the MARF zone. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.  The amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.  The amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3.  The amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4.  The amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6.  The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. The findings.
For denial:
1.  The amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.  The amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3.  The amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4.  The amendment may create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined may be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6.  The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 2/18/2022 Backup Material